{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elizabeth_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Elizabeth T NDE 7716","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elizabeth T NDE 7716  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elizabeth T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3968 Elizabeth T NDE 7716  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Usually I would be afraid to go into an operation and my daughter (Michelle L. whose NDE account is #3965) tells me she'll pray for me.  Yet, I was unafraid as I went into the operating room.  

They said the heartbeat going and then they saw a straight line on the monitor. This is probably when the NDE happened to me.

I had experienced going straight to heaven. When I went there, it was a wonderful experience. I had no pain at all.  I saw a light that I can't explain but it was the brightest light I've ever seen. There were two brown-haired children sitting at a table; one was a daughter that I had miscarried and the other was my daughter Michelle L's miscarried son.  They were grown up.  I was happy to see them and they hugged me.  My grandson, he was a little bit bigger than his two brothers on earth.  My daughter Susan, looked just like Michelle her sister.  I didn't know the reason why the miscarriages happened, so always had a sense of worry as to what became of them.  They looked like they were very, very happy, which made me feel a lot better.   Both children looked at me.  My grandson said, 'Grandma, go back, we don't need you.'  My daughter said, 'Ma, we're happy, we don't need you. Go back.'  

When I came back, I was in a lot of pain.  In a way, I was disappointed to come back because of the pain I was in.  After a few days, I was starting to feel better. And that's my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.  Other: Three aneurysms  I had been told before I went into the operating room, that I had a five percent chance of living: that means a ninety-five percent chance that I would die. I was on my third aneurism operation. I already had two aneurism operations before this operation. I had an ascending aorta, a descending aorta and this third one was an aorta between the stomach and the spine. All three operations were six hours long.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The same as normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt the same as now.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was good, my vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was great, my hearing. It was a little extra better.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the daughter who was miscarried and my grandson who had been miscarried by my daughter Michelle.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I've never seen a light on this earth that bright. It was almost like the sun, that's how bright it was. It wasn't like a living room light, or a kitchen light; it was really bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy to see my daughter and grandson. When they told me they didn't need me, I felt down a little bit. But then I came back and I have my other family, so it made me feel glad in a way. The ones who said they didn't need me looked happy too.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I believed in God. I could have gone to church a little more often.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before, I wondered if there was an afterlife. Now I know there is a heaven, because I went to heaven.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   About the same. I can't do prolonged sitting or standing, so I stay home and I pray. I believe there is a God and I do believe there is a heaven because I went to heaven.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It did change my beliefs. I wondered if there was a heaven and after my experience, I know there's a heaven.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I wondered if there was a heaven.  After my experience, I know there's a heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     (Unknown to transcriber.)

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It makes me believe more than I did before this experience. When I saw my two relatives, they were very happy, so I figured there was God. And they looked very, very happy, so I believe in God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I went to heaven, so I know we exist after life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       To be kinder and more understanding.     To be kinder and more understanding.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my unborn family members and how happy they were. I realized that heaven exists. I gained information about love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The only thing is that people might say to me is that they don't believe in heaven. I tell them that there is a heaven because I went to heaven. I wouldn't have said that before my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   One time, when I was a kid: I was rushed to the hospital in an ambulance. I had a high, high fever. I was twelve years old. That's where I saw my body lying in the ambulance.  I didn't see the light. I started going upwards. Then I was back to reality again. That was the only time that I had a near-death experience until the third operation on an aorta.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that it's real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that it's real.  There's a heaven because I went there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The only thing I can say is it seemed real to me when I experienced it. I could see the children. It was like looking at you now sitting at the table; that's how I saw them. It was very clear. I didn't know the name of my daughter's unborn son.  When I told her, 'He told me his name.' She said, 'Oh, my God!' She was shocked. She never told me the name. I described to her what he looked like. I had a miscarriage after my first child. I think it was a girl, because there was a girl sitting there, saying, 'Ma, I don't need you. You know, you gotta go back.' She looked like my daughter that's living. She looked just like her.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elizabeth_t_nde.html