{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elise_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Elise C NDE 7444","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elise C NDE 7444  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elise C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3797 Elise C NDE 7444  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Everything started two days before my experience. I got information about the death of a loved sick person. I was very disturbed. I decide to join my friends at the beach, to get a change of air after having remained inside during two days. I was walking quietly when I saw a truck for blood donation. I always wanted to give my blood in order to save others and above all helping people in distress. I donated my blood and everything went fine. I felt liberated. 

A few hours later, with my friends, we decided to walk home. However, while walking, I started to feel like vomiting and my head started spinning. Then black spots in the eyes, fear was rising in me. I was clinging on my friend just before slumping down. What I experienced during this loss of consciousness really seemed to be taking hours and at the same time only milliseconds. 

I found myself in a very luminous place with a slight sensation of mist, when I looked to the distance. This space seemed without limit to me, like a void filled with light. At this precise moment, I was on a wooden merry-go-round. I was sitting, I don't know where, maybe on a horse. I was calm and felt very well. I asked myself no questions, as I didn't remember my fainting. For me, I had 6 years, and was enjoying being on a merry-go-round all alone. Then a forearm with a hand of a person came out of nowhere, as if she showed me why I was here.  If was like a camera was showing me that I was unconscious. This hand had a meaning after I understood what had happened to me. I had the choice to stay in this place or to go back. I got a feeling of guilt; I didn't want to abandon my relatives. So, I chose to catch that hand.  

I woke on the ground, with all my friends around me. I had difficulties admitting what had happened. A week later, I talked about it with my friend. He replied to me that he felt an ‘energy’: like a gust of wind that hit him. This testimony helped me a lot to convince myself that I wasn't crazy. This changed my life considerably.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  août  2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Malaise vagal après don du sang.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I knew that I was at the border between life and death, but above all I had the choice to live or to go.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After the hand came out of this mist.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     The merry-go-round moved at different speeds, then stopped when the hand was appearing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Typical vision

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Typical hearing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     A general hand, a little bit as if all the dead were able to help me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light, slightly grayish and an impression of a fog.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     A white world without an end.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness while I didn't know that I was lying on the ground having fainted; then feeling bad abandoning my relatives, when I got to know about my fainting.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     About what was happening to me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The hand stretched, it explained to me through a flash, what was happening: taking the hand I would return to earth if not I was staying in this peaceful place.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Je suis athée mais je pense qu'il y a quelque chose après la mort.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I met a hand, no words, just a 'camera' or 'flashes', by way of conversation.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     J'ai vu un bras humain se tendre dans ma direction.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I did not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my friend a week afterwards. He entrusted to me that an ‘energy’ was hitting him.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I'm an enthusiast about neurological/ psychological medicine. I don't think that this had an influence, as my experience is very different from other peoples.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The account of my friend and what I could see persuades me that it was real, but my scientific-side tells me that the human brain can play tricks on us when it is lost.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am an atheist, but I think that there is something after death. I saw a human arm stretching in my direction.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elise_c_nde.html