{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elisa_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Elisa R NDE 4109","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elisa R NDE 4109  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			                              				  					Elisa R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1982 Elisa R NDE 4109  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Alex and I made all of our pit stops and finally set out on Highway 58. We were on our way to Las Vegas. It was my first time to this glamorous place. I was exceptionally excited and could not wait to arrive in this foreign land. I was driving and Alex was in the passenger seat, bumping his feet to the music. The music was flowing with the rhythm of the sparkling sun. The air outside was so fresh and alive. The time passed on and the sun began to set. Alex slowly drifted off to sleep.

Before I knew it, the daylight was gone. The nightfall was nothing more than road paint and darkness. My intuition acknowledged the fact that this night was like no other. Alex was dead asleep, which meant that the music was my company to pass the time. The speed limit was a steady sixty-five mph. For security purposes, I gripped onto my good luck beads. All of a sudden, I could see two headlights coming straight towards me. I conveyed over as fast as I could and reflected back onto my untouched past. It was too late; there was a thundering 'boom'.

'Oh my God' it was an immeasurable crash. The car vaulted backwards and I did not know what to do or how to react. I peered over at Alex, through the darkness of the night. He was completely unconscious. My heart felt extraordinarily heavy and I filled up with fear. I glimpsed out the window and there stood an older white haired man. His eyes were enormous and he stuttered with fear and said, 'Help's on the way.' When I saw the look on his face, I realized how bad the situation must have looked. That was the moment that I began to pray. I prayed more that night that I have prayed in a long time.

I felt an impervious solution pouring out of my arm like a faucet that would not turn off. My stomach began to clot and melt. That's when I realized, I was fastened in a flood of my own bright red blood. I looked down at the ground to find that the engine came in and literally pinned both of my legs. The darkness made me scream with fear, anger and frustration. My body went into a state of shock because I could not handle all of this mind-blowing destruction.

Lights, sirens, choppers and engines rapidly came swarming through. That is the moment that I found the glowing sound of peace running throughout my body. My heart was no longer heavy and all of my fear went away. The feeling that went through me was a subliminal ease, from the fellow above sending me the faith and power of love. I proceeded to drift into the light. I have never had the sensation of so much luxury and perfect delight.

I heard a voice chanting my name, so I chose to come back to reality and finish life's marvelous game. I looked to the right and saw the paramedics putting up a fight to save us. They opened up Alex's door and immediately placed him on a gurney. They rushed him quickly into the helicopter and flew him to the hospital.

Now the paramedics were going to pull me out of the disabled automobile. They had to cautiously maneuver me out of the vehicle so that they would not injure me more than I already was. I started to panic; I thought my mind was deceiving the image that I saw myself in. The lights were so bright. They needed to use the 'Jaws of Life' in order to free me from the vehicle. My arm was flapping over with blood, bones and a faucet spewing out. I started to scream with fear. The paramedics vigilantly lifted me out onto the gurney. By that time, I thought I was mentally ill. I could not believe that this incident was a part of my reality. They laced up my forearm in order to keep it in place. I looked up at the starry filled heavens praying to God, trusting that he would keep Alex and me safe. I knew in my heart with all the faith that I had, that he would keep me safe no matter what.

The helicopters propellers were blowing down onto my face. The chopper was preparing to take me to the hospital. The Red Cross on the helicopter was glowing so bright and that's when I knew I had to be a fighter, in order to stay alive. They flew me to the hospital, not knowing if they were going to be able to save my life.

Next thing I knew I was laying on a cold x-ray table. The lights were shining bright in my face. My blood was smeared all over me and the table, which made me even more unstable. I woke up the next morning and it turned out that I had two broken legs and a broken forearm. I asked the nurses about Alex and how he was doing. They said he was in a coma and he was hit in the head hard, but he came out of it and he will be fine. The nurses told me that my parents were on their way. I also found out that the man who came into my lane was unfortunately killed from the impact of the head on collision.

I have never had such a spiritual and meaningful experience in all of my life. Although it was traumatizing, mind-boggling and somewhat painful, I still carried God with me the whole time. That was the day I realized my purpose in life. To live every day like it is my last and always let the love in my heart and soul flow freely with everything that I do. I realized that my life could be snatched away from me at any moment. I am much more fragile than I thought. I have always been close with God, but I have been even closer since that day, May 12, 2001. (I wrote that years ago and still remember bits and pieces from the experience.)

One thing I remember is that when I drifted in the light with God there was a point in time that I was begging him to take me with him; I told him that I did not want to go back and it was safe with him. He asked me, 'Are you finished?' I thought about it and realized that I was not finished and if I came home with the Lord I would have unfinished business and my tasks would be incomplete. I was given a choice to stay or go and I chose to come back and finish. He reminded me of my home and the reality that really exists and the beauty behind all of it is so indescribable and amazing. Till this day, pretty much every day, I crave my home - because Heaven truly is my home - this earth is very temporary and time is simply an illusion to further understand being human.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'may 12, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Surgery-related. Direct head injury  Car accident-head on collision.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Head on collision on a one-way highway. The man coming from the opposite direction came in to my lane - we were both going sixty-five mph.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was the most physically injured.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was the most physically injured.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were much brighter and there were many, many more colors. Our colors here are very dull compared to heaven. Clarity was like a crystal ball and I could see almost in a 3D fashion but much more beyond that.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot recall - but a part me remembers that I did not speak I communicated through intuition. I did not speak English to God; I spoke no language it was through a higher understanding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall a tunnel - I just recall some sort of almost floating experience.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw God and he told me (not in words) how much he loved me, he surrounded me with so much unconditional love. His love was so familiar to me that I cried out to my father to let me go home with him, please take me with you, I don't want to go back. Then he gave me the choice, and I chose to come back because he reminded me of what we spoke about before I came to earth and that I was not finished. I then basked in his love a bit longer and then came back to earth and he has never ever left my side.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright and beautiful - the lights made a sound, a sound of love - like the sound of the trumpets that have been described when one goes to the lord.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven with God.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE, LOVE, LOVE, LOVE, very unconditional. Hard to explain that kind of love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I reviewed my entire life, it flashed right before my eyes (time did not exist). Everything that I have ever done was replayed in my mind and everything that I ever made anyone else endure I felt - it has made me very compassionate and sensitive towards other people and how they are effected by me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I am unsure of this question.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Faith in a higher power/source-God and Jesus

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     They have always been pretty much the same but the experience gave me a great amount of confirmation behind my beliefs.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Faith in a higher power/source-God and Jesus (not sure if liberal was the right box to check for that)

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     They have always been pretty much the same but the experience gave me a great amount of confirmation behind my beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   That we are all on a very similar yet different path. We are all here to learn and we each have a different destiny path but the ultimate purpose for all of us is love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They are very loving and real yet I am particular about who I am able to become close with.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There is no other feeling in this life time that can compare to the love that I felt that night. The love was very high in vibration and beyond comprehension of an ordinary person. Unexplainable to say the least.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sensed when the tsunami happened and other earthly events; sometimes I have dreams that foretell future events. I write poetry that speaks of God and have written countless poems and still have sudden urges to write. Sometimes after someone passes I can feel their presence like they are trying to communicate to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The amount of love was unreal and so amazing - I crave it sometimes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my mom right away and it has made her faith sky-rocket - she is very easy going. I have shared with friends and other family members. I am careful who I share it with because some people assume you're crazy and some believe me because they know me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I did not know much.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was still in shock for a while after from the trauma and did not remember anything for ten days but once I remembered it was a slow process. I just remember how happy and grateful I was ever right after - the love was pouring through me like a faucet.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It took a while to remember and process it and certain people that I shared it with gave me doubt in the experience like it was all a hoax - but my faith and my heart know that it was all very, very real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Sometime certain things will come up out of nowhere - certain parts of the event.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There was more that went on but my recollection can only go so far in the physical form.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I like the questions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elisa_r_nde.html