{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elisa_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Elisa P NDE 3472","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elisa P NDE 3472  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elisa P NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1579 Elisa P NDE 3472  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I kept myself tightened to the cliff face. There was nothing under me, only the empty. I continuously said to myself, not to look down, not to look down, and not to look down.  I was trying not to panic but I felt only my breath. I tried to come down, not to go up. I moved with imperceptible movements, slowly. Very slowly.

Suddenly I slid from the cliff face and then all was dark around me, deep dark. I didn't have a body; I was immaterial. I had only my thought and stop, nothing at all. I forgot my body. The time moved fast and I thought very fast. I saw me at two years old, then at four in the sea, etc. Suddenly my life was over and then I saw three slides of my probable future. In that moment, I was very sad because I was dead and I knew it clearly. I wanted to return at life to live a life with plenty of things. Slowly I saw a bright light around me, by instinct I know that was 'the line', the 'passage' and if I passed through it, I was dead. I decided not to pass into it because I wanted to live in my world and enjoy all things in it. In this time, I knew all the energy into world. I know all. I began to pray. Suddenly it was dark, but a different dark and I began to feel my own body again. Then I opened my eyes and saw the blue sky and I was ecstatic because I had returned to life. I was completely changed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  15-08-2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Forte caduta  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I fell down a ravine.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious during this time but I cannot control my thoughts.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious during this time but I cannot control my thoughts.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was very bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know because I don't hear any sounds around me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very beautiful and bright light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness, sense of guilt and peace in presence of the bright light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw me in my house as a baby, I saw moments of peace in my house, I saw it from a different point of view. I remember me at three years old and I remember the dress I wear. Then, when I was at house, I watched photos and I find me with the same dress I saw in this experience. I saw three shots of my future and one was my house when I moved the next months. In other two, I was old.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     1) The table and the chair in my future house and my future friend in that house.   2) Other events still have not been taken place.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The line was near me but I don't want to pass through it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Seguivo una religione strana, una sorta di neopaganesimo.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I'm Christian. Now I have faith and that helps me more.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Cristiana non praticante.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I'm Christian. Now I have faith and that helps me more.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have the impression I understood all in the universe, all the law that regulate the universal life. All was obvious and simple and all was connected.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I lost some people because of my change of mind but that was normal to me, I expected it because I was so changed. I began to have friends calmer, more solar, and I wanted to help the people. I cut off friendship that oppressed me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt sensations difficult to translate in words and then the light and my thoughts, all was incredible.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm more sensible to other persons, I feel their emotion and their problems. If they are good or not, if they are happy or not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        1) The bright light.  2) When I returned in my body I had the feeling that someone had helped me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with few people. First time I shared it with my friend a few days after. He was skeptical but then he saw I was changed and then he began to trust me about this experience. Rarely do I feel I must share it with some people. I shared it with a friend of a friend and then he hugs me and thanks me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I returned to my home after a few days and I was completely changed. I changed my mind and I wanted to change my life. I was happy to be alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened one and a half years ago and I think about it all days.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm changed and I changed my world because of that experience. The 15th of August I have my 'second birthday'.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elisa_p_nde.html