{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elizabeth_nde.html","mytitle":"Elizabeth NDE 4068","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elizabeth NDE 4068  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elizabeth NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1960 Elizabeth NDE 4068  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Okay, I remember it was a night like many others, when I went out with the man who was at that time my husband, going out with the intention of using drugs. We went to find another friend who was the man who started me off in that world. Then we went to buy cocaine and went to a motel, all three of us, so that we wouldn't be in the street and be stopped by the police.

The thing is that on the same day, I had taken a lot of cocaine and while it was still daytime, I mixed it with alcohol. I'm told that I fainted. I felt I was looking in front of me, and all I could see was a silhouette standing before me. It was the most attractive presence; I felt it was the most beautiful man I had seen in my life. He seemed to be naked, but I could only see the silhouette standing there in front of me as if he did not want me to go in that direction. Because the bright light was behind him, I couldn't see his face; the light was shining from behind him towards me as if to light him up.

At the same time, I felt that I was lying in bed, face up, with him just looking at me, but I could also see him from another angle standing in front of the bed. Where I was lying was not where I really was, and there was no bed there - it was like a void and now that I am writing about it, it is as if he did not allow me to enter into the light. I don't know if this was because it was not my time yet - but I was not afraid.

When I fainted, I felt nothing, but I did feel something when I came back to my body. I remember it was horrible. When I woke up, I was under the shower, in cold water. My companions were shoving me from side to side. I wanted to communicate, speak and tell them that I was okay but my mouth would not respond, it was as if I could not speak and they went on shoving me about as if they couldn't see that I was saying I'm okay. Little by little, I was coming back to myself.

When I could finally feel my body, I felt so refreshed, as if I had slept for twelve hours. I had no pain anywhere - I didn't know what had happened and wanted to stay in that place. After some days, I started remembering what I had experienced. Those who were present said I was unconscious for five minutes. I don't know why I couldn't go any further than I did. But what is certain is that I came back healed, and in time I overcame my cocaine habit - I feel better than before, but I have always been a person of faith and I have seen God's work in my own life, in various ways. There is definitely life after death; at least I believe this. But not like this world.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  Creo q fue una sobredosis nunca fui al hospital despues del incidente..  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Drogas  Okay, yes, as I was under the influence of drugs and the two people with me in the room were also drugged.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Well, when I fainted I felt nothing; I only remember seeing the silhouette during that time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was so impressive that I just stayed looking, not speaking.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing, I just thought who was he, but he did not speak to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He was just looking at me - and me him - but I know it was a man.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I could see it behind the silhouette.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Pienso q si xq era como si estuviera entre un tiempo y espacio..

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. Tranquility and curiosity, but I could not go forward.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Creo en Dios xq he sentido su presencia en circunstancias de mi vida...Pero no asisto a una iglesia en especial.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The message was clear. Either you stay or you go back.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Quite a lot. I feel the truth, I know when I'm being lied to and who wishes me well - I feel it in my heart, it's like a gift.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I did not like talking about this because people take you for a crazy person. But reading here, I think not.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel that I can know about things before they happen. I have visits in my dreams from people who are going to die. When things are going badly with someone, I feel it as if I know what is going on and I feel pain in my heart. This makes me stay away from people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I cannot explain to myself is why he did not speak to me. I just felt within myself: 'You must go back, it's not your time.'

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Well, some people laugh at it, others who have read about it believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it, everything was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It should all be on video. Thanks a lot!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elizabeth_nde.html