{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elena_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Elena Possible NDE 5425","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elena Possible NDE 5425  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elena Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3261 Elena Possible NDE 5425  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember I was being wheeled on a stretcher through a long corridor. On my face was a type of mask with an unpleasant smell, and I was being told, 'Breathe deeply, like in gym class'.  I inhaled a couple of times and don't remember anything after that. Then there were some very clear recollections.  I exited out of my body from my ribs, around my solar plexus, and moved in the direction of the left corner of the ceiling. I saw myself in the form of a small pink cloud, not completely rounded, but a little flattened at the top and bottom. The cloud was alive and moved a little.  Its form changed a little but its dimensions remained the same. There was lightness, something like bliss, which is difficult to describe. In terms of earthly feelings, you could possibly compare it to swimming underwater, and you run out of air, and you swim with all of your strength, and when you come to the surface you gasp in a full breath; such relief! How can I convey these feelings? Just that when you are there, things are different, easier, as if you had found your way into your own world. Because of the enjoyable feelings, I wasn't even surprised by my condition. I felt like I had been there before, or that, in any case, this is how things should be. No fear, no pain, complete 'comfort'.  Below me, I saw the operating table and my body.

Two doctors were standing next to my body and one near my head. They were all women. 'Oh, is that me there?' I thought indifferently to myself, 'And what are they doing to me?' And then that became uninteresting. I was much more interested in the fact that I could see through walls. An ambulance drove up, also uninteresting. 'Well, well, this building is made from logs', I exclaimed to myself. It amazed me that I could see the logs because the wall was plastered on both sides. Then I looked through to the other side of the wall and I saw a hospital ward. There was nothing interesting there. I looked in the hall and there was a man sitting there with his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees.

Here I remembered my parents and thought they might be worried about me. I neither missed them nor felt drawn to them. There wasn't that love which I had for them on Earth. I was overcome with indifference. But I was enjoying my condition. Suddenly a clear, articulate voice rang out, 'It's time to go back!' At first, I thought that it might be a radio announcement but then I understood it was addressed to me. 'No, no, I don't want to, I like it here! Being there is too hard to bear! I don't want to!'  My cloud shook with agitation but the voice repeated, 'It's time to go back!' It was as if a wave pushed me along and my cloud returned along the same path it had exited my body, through my solar plexus.

Then I woke up on a bed in the ward. My first thought was, 'Why is my body so cold?' I tossed and turned from the cold for two hours. It was June and thirty degrees Celsius. [Eighty-six degrees Fahrenheit] I was under several warm blankets and there were hot water bottles at my feet, and still my teeth chattered from the cold. I have never felt such cold in my entire life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973 год

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness. Surgery-related.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully consciousness as soon as I turned into the cloud. After many years, I still remember every detail and every small thing that happened to me, and all of my feelings.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to me that, although I didn't think about it, I could control my 'vision'.  If distant things interested me, I could see them clearly. Everything that I was curious about, I saw clearly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see through walls, to my profound surprise.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     I only heard a voice.  A male voice.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None. I didn't know what was going on.  Only when the cloud appeared did I feel an unspeakable relief.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     When this event took place, it didn't even occur to me that something wasn't right. My mother was so happy that I was getting better! Therefore, I felt in the depths of my soul that it couldn't be something bad! I thought that this must be something everyone experiences. I was a child and grew up in a country where no one spoke of or wrote about such things! Many years later, I saw something on TV where they talked about a similar experience, and I clearly recalled what had happened to me. I was very interested but when I told my friends about it, many of them either didn't believe me or laughed at me. That made me so uncomfortable.  After all, I remembered everything to the smallest detail!  Why did they have to laugh at me?  And so, for many years I have not told anyone anything. I did hear the 'voice' twice more.  Both situations turned out to be decisive in my life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Полное отрицание всякой религии

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in Holy power; Holy reason.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in Holy power; Holy reason.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult to convey the feelings because it's difficult to compare them to earthly things that are experienced when one is in the body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Many years later I heard 'the voice'.  I remember how I was born and came into the world.  I remember when my parents named me.  I remember the face of the woman who delivered me.  I remember many moments from my first days of life. When I learned to talk, I pointed out this woman to my mother (she lived not far from us) and said, 'When I was born, she took me in her arms and said 'A girl! Such a beauty!' To this my mother replied, 'She became a drunkard a long while ago, she was expelled from midwifery, she washes floors now!'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        One

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it ten years later when I began to read widely and came to understand that what happened to me was not normal.  Until then, I had thought that this sort of thing happens to everyone. Even so, I was reluctant to talk about it; because I was afraid I would not be believed and would be laughed at.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I knew nothing about religion or death.  In my country and in my family everyone lived 'correctly' and didn't say anything 'extraneous'.  My grandmothers were 'alive' and my grandfathers had been 'killed in action' on the front, but hadn't 'died.' Therefore I knew nothing of death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I understood that it had been real as soon as I woke up and over the course of many years, I have never doubted it. It doesn't leave your memory. When I woke up, a surgeon who had operated on me came up to me and asked, 'Are you feeling better?'  I remembered hearing words she had said during the operation and told them to her. 'We should have cut it right away, you can always suture. Now we have to deal with it.'

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have learned about similar situations from other people.  I think now that everything is the will of God.  Nothing in this life happens 'just because'.  I think that our body acts as a sort of 'transportation' through a transitional world.  And you're not allowed to get off at the 'wrong' stop.  No sooner, no later; everything in its own time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Twice in my life I heard the voice and in spite of my wishes, everything took place as the voice said it would.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elena_possible_nde.html