{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eleonora_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Eleonora Probable NDE 3054","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eleonora Probable NDE 3054  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eleonora Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1436 Eleonora Probable NDE 3054  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sleeping and dreaming. Suddenly my dream interrupted and I was in a tunnel with a light in the bottom. I began to move fast in the tunnel toward the light. In the light I founded all the persons that I have known in my several past existences, I saw this like an old photo group, all the persons were happy to see me. I was watching the persons and suddenly to my left I was approached by a middle aged man with a beard that asked me, in authoritarian tone, why I were here. I answered that I didn't know why I were here. He said to me that it was not my moment and I had to go back. I answered that I didn't want to go back, I was happy in that moment and I wanted to stay here. He accompanied me far away from the group and then my short life passed in front of me. I felt all the pain I caused to my parents with my whims as a child. Then the man said to me that I must return because persons needed me. In that moment, I saw my future (unfortunately, I forgot this part) and I understood that it was right for me to go back. Suddenly I was over my body. I began to return in my body from the feet and I felt the heat go up from my feet towards my head. I was able to move only when I completed this return to my body. In that moment I was thinking that it was only a strange dream and I continued sleeping.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  ignota

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    possibile ipossia cerebrale? Ero con la testa sotto le coperte  Other 'durante il sonno, passaggio da un sogno all'nde'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Before the return I had seen my past and my future and understood that I must go back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before the return I had seen my past and my future and understood that I must go back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time and space didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was surrounded with a beautiful light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound was more and clearer to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I left my body then at the beginning of the tunnel I laid down and the speed increased more and more while I was approaching the light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I meet other beings and I knew who they are. I knew them in my other past lives (most recent were behind) and they were happy to saw me. We used telepathy.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was intense and white but not strong and sometimes warm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When I was in the tunnel I was very astonished, then I felt intense joy while I was in the light and I had the knowledge that I must return to my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw the episodes where my behavior conditioned the life of the others. I understood that unconditional love must be our only purpose.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     But when I wakened I didn't have memory of the future events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   educazione cristiana

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't have fear about death; I have a great faith in God but not tied to a particular religion and at all religions at same time.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   la fede è intensa ma non si rispecchia in modo completo in nessun credo religioso attuale

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't have fear about death; I have a great faith in God but not tied to a particular religion and at all religions at same time.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Where I was in the light I understood but now I don't remember exactly all knowledge.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes But only after that I have understood what was happened.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The race in the tunnel, the light, the beauty and the peace of the place where I was were intense but difficult to describe in appropriate terms.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Precognition and mediumship.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I grew up I had episodes of mediumship that pushed me to inform about that strange infantile dream and I discovered that it wasn't a dream but it was an episode of NDE. A very helpful friend helped me to manage emotions and situations.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I considered this experience only a strange and particular vivid dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     That was a great experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't remember my age at the time of that dream and I don't remember particular details of that period of my life. I remember only that NDE. Since then I haven't sleep with my head under blankets!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eleonora_probable_nde.html