{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/elena_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Elena D Probable NDE 9412","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elena D Probable NDE 9412  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elena D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5048 Elena D Probable NDE 9412  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I'll write this part first in my native language (Bulgarian); Translated to English below.  Български

  1. Преди събитието

  Основното ми заболяване е фамилна полипоза. Тя причини 7-килограмов дезмоиден тумор в корема ми, който беше отстранен при операция на 21.01.2010. Операцията причини мезентериална тромбоза и отстраняване на червата на 22.01.2010. Прекарах около месец в медикаментозно причинена кома, и още около година в болница в борба за живота си.

  Точно преди събитието, имах необичайни видения - когато затворех очи, попадах на необичайни места, непознати, но винаги едни и същи.

  2. Самото събитие: попаднах на място без време, без граници, без разделение на сетивата. Усещане, че няма време, за различен тип пространство. Цялото място е тъмносиньо, и едновременно светло, "светъл мрак".

  Разговори без думи със същества, които приличат на кълбо облак. Усещане за различен тип комуникация - знанието пристига при теб без да има време в което комуникацията се случва. Това усещане е, всъщност, най-яркият ми спомен. Усещане за добри намерения.

  Нямам спомен как се озовах там.

  Имах избор. Или да се върна на земята, със знанието че ще пътувам с едно момче, за което последствие се ожених и разведох.

  Или да стана ангел с жълти и лилави (индиго?) пера. По това време от живота си носех дрехи с тези цветове.

  Казаха ми какво ще ми се случи в бъдещето. Считам, че собствената ми интерпретация на техните думи не е никак точна, обаче. Освен това, оставен ми е избор. Казаха, че ще се видим след 3 (каквото и да означава). Там време не съществува, но след като се върнах, това 3 породи големи страхове у мен.  3. След събитието:

  Оцелях много трудно. Прекарах почти цяла година в болница на тотално парентерално хранене. Станах първия български пациент оцелял практически без черва по този начин. В един момент бях 35 кг и докторите ми не даваха шансове. Приятелите ми организираха благотворителна кампания за да съберат средства за лечението ми. От 2010 до 2014 имаше два неуспешни опита да се подобри състоянието ми, един в Бостън, САЩ и втори в Италия. В крайна сметка, преместих се да живея в Кеймбридж, Англия, и бях трансплантирана там. Здравните ми проблеми не приключиха с трансплантацията. От 2010 до сега, 2022, съм била с пряка и голяма опасност за живота 7-8 пъти.

  Знанието продължава да се връща след като се завърнах. Хем се връщаш и вече го имаш това знание, хем продължава да ти се открива. Получавам знание - спонтанно, необосновано. Понякога животът ми зависи от това знание; понякога са привидно малки неща. Заселва се в мен и зная, че нещо е редно да бъде направено, без да зная защо и как. Просто зная какво трябва да стане. С усещането, че някой ме пази отгоре. Съпругът ми изпитва подобно усещане и често участва в тези "действия".

  Зная, че имам връзка с онзи свят. Зная, че ако попитам, ще ми се даде отгоре по някакъв начин. Но не винаги искам да питам, по някаква причина. Зная, че не е редно да питам. Може и да не съм права.  


  An imperfect translation:

  1. Before the event

  My base disease is familial polyposis. It became the reason for a 7-kg tumor in my belly, which was resected surgically on 21.01.2010. The surgery resulted in a mesenteric thrombosis and complete removal of my intestines on 22.01.2010. I have spent the next month in medically induced coma, and the next year inside the hospital, fighting for my life.

  Right before the event, I had unusual visions - when I was closing my eyes, I would 'travel' to unusual places,  to me, but the same places each time.

  2. The event itself

  I was in a place without time, without boundaries, without division between the senses. A strong sense that there is No time, that you are in a different space. The place was dark-blue, and simultaneously light, a kind of 'bright darkness'.

  Conversations without words with creatures that resembled a cloud orb. A feeling for a different type of communication - the knowledge arrives at you without a specific time at which the communication is taking place. This feeling is actually my brightest recollection. Also, a feeling for good intentions.

  I have No memory of how I arrived in this place.

  I was given a choice. I could return to the Earth, with the knowledge that I will travel in the future with a man who I later married and divorced.

  Or I could, instead, become an 'angel with yellow and purple (indigo?) feathers'. I was wearing clothes of these colors at this time of my life.  They told me what will happen in the future. However, I think that my current interpretation of their 'words' is very inaccurate. Moreover, I have some choice. They told me, that we will see each other again 'after three'. I don't know what that means; and there exists No 'after' there, but when I returned and still yet, this 'three' caused a lot of fear to me.

  3. After the event:

  I survived with great difficulty. I remained in hospital for a whole year, on total parenteral nutrition. I became the first Bulgarian patient who lived without intestines. At one point, I was 35 kg and my doctors were not giving me any chances. My friends supported me greatly, and organized a charity campaign to help financially for my treatment. From 2010 to 2014, there were 2 unsuccessful attempts for treatment - one in Boston, USA and another in Italy. Finally, I moved to Cambridge, UK, in 2015 and I received an intestinal transplant in 2016. My health issues did not stop with the transplant. From 2010 to now - 2022 - I have had an immediate danger for my life on 7-8 occasions.

  The 'knowledge' continues to 'arrive' at me after I 'came back'. I came back with this knowledge, but it continues to 'open' for me. I receive the knowledge spontaneously, with no reasoning. Sometimes my life depends on it. Sometimes it is for apparently small things. It dwells in me, and then I know that it is right to do something. I just know what has to happen. And there is a knowledge that something protects me. My husband has similar feeling and often has part of these actions.   I know I have a bond with this other world. I know that if I ask I will receive an answer in some way. But I don't always want to ask, for some reason. I think it is not right to ask - but maybe I am wrong.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 22.01.2010  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related While under general anesthesia      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Mesenteric thrombosis  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   No time; unearthly communication; very strong senses.  I have had hallucination on many other times. My NDE experience was completely different from hallucinations.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       N/A  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time just doesn't exist there  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Senses come together there.  If everyday sense is smelling a very aromatic rose, there the knowledge for rose is coming straight to you (not to your brain - to you).  The results come without a process. No time exists there.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Senses come together there.  If everyday sense is smelling a very aromatic rose, there the knowledge for rose is coming straight to you (not to your brain - to you).  The results come without a process. No time exists there.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     No clear recollection  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     see description above;  No time, different space, dark-blue, bright darkness  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I cannot say  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     That I will travel with a man who I married and divorced;  that I will endure difficulties, but somewhat unclear. There were concrete things, but nothing set in stone.  They warned of future medical problems, but I have to interpret them and they never happen the way I expect them to.  They told me we'll meet again "after three".  

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I had been given choice:  to remain there as an 'angel with blue and yellow feathers',  or to return and endure some difficulties.  By choosing to return you have to lose some of the knowledge.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian.   At the time of the experience, I felt part of something big, unrelated to any religion  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian.   A believer  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     the experience is too concrete and new to be consistent with any previous sensations or beliefs  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     it is all about love  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   see description above  communication comes immediately  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     No, but the creatures knew me. You are not new to them.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Yes in a way, but this feeling I had before the experience  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     well I just knew it  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     see above  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     warning for future hardships  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     back then I came back with the aim to love a specific person  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     All that happened before while above, was unconscious sensation given to me from time to time, not understood and not too strong.  All that happened afterwards, comes to me when I'm opened spiritually, focused, and are strong, and I know where they come from so I trust them more. It feels like someone is helping me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They changed dramatically after the experience.  But not solely because of the experience.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   We don't have words for that  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the time of the experience.  But I don't remember all of it  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see pictures when I allow them to appear. I can ask for knowledge and knowledge is given to me somehow, when it is about spiritual matters.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        They told me few things that will happen.  They have mostly already happened but not the way I assumed they would.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started to share it with people as soon as I thought somebody is ready to hear me.  At least a few of them were influenced, but by No means all.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real      

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   the sensation of receiving knowledge;  and some of the predictions for the future  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel scared of having it again         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/elena_d_probable_nde.html