{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1el_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"El S Probable NDE 9736","mylang":"de"}
          	        El S Probable NDE 9736  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					El S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5263 El S Probable NDE 9736  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

      

    Eight years ago, I was on life support because I had complete organ failure. I had an allergic reaction to medication, causing my body to go into sepsis.  My CO2 level was over 200 when the normal max is 35 before brain death. My doctors gave me a less than 1% survival rate the weekend of September 26, 2015. A prayer blanket was laid over me and the hospital pastor gave me last rites.    

  I left my body and went to the astral realm. There, 3 guides showed me around. One of the guides looked like my daughter although I knew it wasn't her. ‘It’ was there to keep me anchored to this current reality.  I needed to keep fighting to live, otherwise I may not have come back. My guides spoke to me telepathically. I was shown various aspects of the universe through lessons. For instance, I was told to merge with other life forms so that I could understand that they were conscious. I was told to merge with a tree, a fish, and a lily flower to feel their consciousness. I traveled through space and to another planet and observed another intelligent species.   

  On the other side, I was taken through the Akashic records. Prior questions I had before this experience were answered as my guides showed me things of the world and my life.  They counseled me about past and present life events, although all these events seemed to happen all at once. My guides took me through different dimensions within the akashic record of time and events.  I saw alternative timeline events of this reality and was shown future events of my life and world events. I got a lot of my pre-death questions answered like, why are we here on earth, who are humans really, what is God, and is there life after death?   

  After this, my guide telepathically told me to stick out my left hand. A silver sphere appeared in my hand.  Then Jesus’ light body appeared. I was told how much I was loved, that God and Jesus were with me, and not to fear. I did not feel any fear, only ambivalence because I didn't desire any particular outcome. I just was and accepted whatever God wanted to happen. A bright, white light then appeared and panned around the room, forming a tunnel shape. I looked at it and felt peace. I was then told it was not my time and the light retracted back from where it came from.    

  During my hospital time, my daughter, who was energetically connected to me, told everyone that I would live despite this looking like a bodily impossibility.    It had been a few days before I was alert enough to communicate. I remembered seeing my family in my hospital room with the doctor there. He snapped his fingers in my face and commanded, 'Say something!' I still felt like I was in a different reality, but I irritatedly looked at the doctor and said, 'Something.'  With that, everyone laughed and one person said, 'She’s back.' They realized I did not have loss of brain function because of my sarcasm. When my tracheotomy tube was taken out, my throat healed within a day.  My doctors were startled it healed so quickly. My feeding tube took 2-3 days for it to fully close up and heal. It took me time to share my story because it was so different than what I learned in traditional church dogma. I am grateful to be.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2015  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction.       Other: Coma for 2.5 months with near-death episode twice during that time.  Sepsis and anaphylaxis  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.    I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Everything seemed more real and like I could manifest  at this level of consciousness.
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There did not seem to be 'time'  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I traveled through alternate realities. Everything was more vivid. I travelled to space as an orb and saw nebulas and a planet.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was sharp and telepathic.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I think it was close to the final end. I saw a very bright light;  was told Jesus was with me and God loved me. I felt o.k. with whatever outcome. I was told to extend my left hand and a silver sphere appeared. Jesus appeared in light body form, then I was told it wasn't my time and I was going back. Then the light retracted.  
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Dimensions  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       the main feelings I remember  was being detached but intrigued, love and gratitude, awe, some conflict 

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I was told/shown things about the universe.  

  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Yes.     I went through a recall  
  
  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future.     I saw the world's future and my personal future.  Even my experience happened before the 2016 election, I saw that Trump would win and Kim Jung Un would calm down for awhile. I saw that there would be alien disclosure. I saw there is going to be a main internet disruption. I saw a mass sex trafficking ring taken down. I saw experiments on trees to check for conciousness. And I saw war; a lot of world related things.  
  
Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Non- Denominational Christian. Was a single's ministry leader at one point. I was a little more traditional-thinking than now.  

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More metaphysical and less rigid but still Christian  

  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths.   I do not believe that Christianity is practicing as it is meant to be. The intent is to be more metaphysical than people realize. Jesus was metaphysical. Also, I was shown that many faiths have a part of the truth. There is a deliberate plan in that.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Some  belief systems were changed.  

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I thought Gay people might not get to 'heaven' amongst other things too much to list here.  I now know differently.

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I had 3 guides  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw Jesus in light-body form and was in the presence of God  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have knowing  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     My purpose is to live  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Everything about my NDE showed me things continue  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We come here to refine our souls through challenges and life journey in general  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is a high frequency. Everything is created because of love and the frequency of love is what  is expanding the universe. Love is a needed energetic property for our existence.  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Some of the shifts are hard to explain like compassion for others. I feel more detached, yet I care.  

  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Lost a couple friends   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not talk about it much for 7 years.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More intuitive ability. Electrical disruptions.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    podcast interviews. 1 book  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain     

     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1el_s_probable_nde.html