{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ekaterina_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Ekterina R NDE 6816","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ekterina R NDE 6816  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ekterina R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3397 Ekterina R NDE 6816  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I gave birth to a baby girl exactly eleven months before the miscarriage. My next baby had been in my womb for three months when I miscarried. Earlier that day I had started planning to go to the doctor that day because for the previous three days I had been having bloody discharges.  I had not yet called the doctor when my water broke and then I started bleeding profusely. [med: in the womb (uterus) the fetus is surrounded and cushioned by a fluid-filled membranous sac called the ‘amniotic sac.’ At the beginning of or during labor, the membranes of that sac rupture and the fluid comes out—also known as the ‘water breaking.’] I called my mom since my three kids were the only ones with me.  Also, I called my sister-in-law, who lived next door, to clean up the mess because I didn't want my children to see it.  I could feel myself slowly drifting away. I was wondering why I didn't feel any pain while I was going through it. My mom arrived panic-stricken and all.  I thought to myself, ‘I'll be fine now that she's here.’ 

I closed my eyes and felt like I was teleported to another place. I saw shadows of people hovering above me and I felt like I had just been born. And they felt so familiar, like they had anticipated my coming.  I didn't know what to expect, but I wasn't scared. A part of me was asking myself if I wanted to stay there and leave my children behind.  But I thought, ‘I'm not done with my present life yet,’ and I willed myself to go back.  I opened my eyes and saw my mom and sister-in-law. At first, I couldn't recognize them, but gradually my senses became more active. I begged for water as if my life depended on it. It was then I understood why Jesus asked for water when he was dying. He was trying to hold on to dear life because his business here wasn't done yet.  I also realized then that death can be a choice.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 13,2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I lost a lot of blood and was slowly losing consciousness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was on the ‘other side.’

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   It just felt like a new beginning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt as if I was ‘seeing’ more than usual, like there was another dimension other than the three dimensional world we've always known.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I often have this ringing in my ear like I was being fine-tuned.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     In the sense that those beings I saw were totally unfamiliar.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     It didn't seem that unusual—the only remarkable thing was the feeling of the place.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing.  It felt like I was just a watcher.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     But my desire to know the truth has become more intense.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     No, not the word's future—but I did become aware of another life—or it could have been a past life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It's more like the great author of life wanted me to start a new chapter, but I refused, because leaving this life would not have been a good thing.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is more real than ever to me. My physical body is having difficulty catching up with all the experiences he's been giving me.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     they say life is a curse because you would then experience suffering.is it better than  not having a chance to exist at all?the fact that we're conscious of our existence gives us an opportunity to rejoice in our creator and celebrate him.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Try not to think so much of one's self.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   Everything was quiet, but everybody was rejoicing. I think that I failed to notice many of the details around me because I was there for such a brief amount of time.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     there's no time and space.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     it felt like i'm something yet i'm nothing.it's like i'm just consciousness.i'm just travelling with God.all these emotions are not real.the only thing real is allowing things to happen.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Grace is real and its gift of life is wonderful. If you're given such a wonderful life, wouldn't you ask God earnestly how you could be of service to him?

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     nothingness is immortality.clinging to form would only lead to loneliness.just let things pass by and smile.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     i'm not sure if one really leaves earth rather it's a whole new beginning.you know  how it is when a baby looks at you for a long time.he's staring but his mind is choosing whether to stay or not.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     don't be part of any system because that would deny you of knowing what you're really here for

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     don't get attached to anything.strip off your identity and know your purpose.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     love is a duty.it's not a feeling.it's the one thing that keeps this world in place.it's what God does everyday.the natural law springs from God's love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Everyone now finds me weird and it's hard to discuss with them things that I've realized. They do not understand.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I see flashes of events which are a bit scary to look at or too out of this world, but I can sense the reality behind them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I hear voices but I can somehow feel in my heart whether it's a divine message or not.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first they thought it was surreal. Then they didn't want to hear any more about it and would just walk away if I started talking about it.  It's quite lonely but I saw it coming.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was a baby, I had a convulsion due to high fever.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     My mom told me about it. One thing is for sure, I'll never be the same again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     It could be real but what's the point. I'm still subject to God's good humor.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   My experience could be a memory of when I was a baby before I knew my parents. As I said, there's no time and no space there.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When I was young I used to have had premonitions of things to come.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ekaterina_r_nde.html