{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edwin_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Edwin A NDE 21085","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edwin A NDE 21085  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edwin A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						744  Edwin A NDE  21085  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It's funny that I write. I have told very few people in my lifetime, feeling that most people I tell might think I'm crazy. But, this was very real and the older I seem to get the more I've been thinking about it.


I must have been about three to five years of age. At the time, I suffered from severe asthma attacks. Mom and Dad had to rush me to the emergency room at all hours of the night, just about every night. This particular time I remember being rushed to the hospital with many doctors and nurses working on me. There was a sense of urgency and I must have stopped breathing. I remember vividly, what I now know to be my spirit rising to the ceiling of the hospital room. I could see my body lying in the hospital bed with all the doctors and nurses working on me. I could see the entire room, even the wall division. I remember the wall division because my family was on the other side crying looking at me in the room through a small window on the door. It seemed as the where fighting for a spot to look through on the window. As I rose, I felt sad that they were so unhappy, but as I elevated I remember looking up and seeing this very pleasant light. I remember trying to stop, but I just kept going. Then there was a Being.  The higher I went the more light I saw. The entire ceiling became the sky with a trail of light leading way up. Then I stopped and I remember looking down at the room and everyone crying. What I don't remember quite well is if the Being was giving me a choice to either stay here on earth or go with him. Or if he told me, it was just not my time. I remember feeling that I did not want my family to suffer my loss. I also remember that no words where ever exchanged, it was just a feeling and I understood everything that was going on. The interactions with the Being were just feelings and everything was understood. I remember not being able to see his face, but I had the feeling of a male figure, I don't know why! The more I went towards him, the more light I saw. Lots of colors as if a rainbow.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Late 1960's  early  1970's

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessAllergic reaction    Clinical death I was having an asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my body lying in a hospital bed being worked on by many doctors and nurses.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don't know if I really did flat line that day. But, until this day I remember that experience as if it were yesterday. My older brother mentioned something about it once. I was very eager to listen to what he had to say. He actually gave me conformation that something did happen to me. As I tried to get more information from him, he shut down and did not want to talk about it anymore. We have never spoken about it ever again.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I'm not sure.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I could hear what was going on in the hospital room and outside the hospital room. All at the same time. I remember the sense of urgency amongst the doctors and nurses. There were many hospital staff members in the room, not allowing my family in the room. I could see my mother; father, brothers and I believe my cousins, all screaming and crying uncontrollably.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The only thing that stands out is the Being that was present as I rose. He stopped me and let me observe all that was happening. I could not see his face. Just a very bright, beautiful light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I felt the presence of a Supreme Being. Comforting and making me feel not afraid. Showing me, maybe giving me an option, I'm not quite sure. The Being was part of the light. I could see His figure and toward His face the brighter the light got. I believe I had to turn away at one point and not look directly at his face.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Unbelievable light. Very Beautiful, very white and then different colors, like a rainbow, but with no order. All headed upward towards a bigger light. I could see the sky like I have never seen it before. So bright giving just a warm feeling, very comforting. I was not afraid to keep going once I reached a certain point. I wanted to keep going after a certain point.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Everything that was communicated at that time was without words. Everything was understood by feelings. I felt and I knew what was going on and what I had to do.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt sad seeing my family suffer. The higher I went the happier I remember feeling. It was as if the emotions down below did not matter anymore. Almost as if the emotions with my family were separating the higher I elevated.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I believe I felt being told that there was more for me to do here on earth. That it was not my time to go.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I could see everything below. The hospital room and my family on the other side of the door looking into the room.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   That's the one thing that I cannot remember clearly. I don't remember clearly if I was given a choice to go back or told to go back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I truly believe in the spirit world. I believe in God all mighty. I believe that there is good and evil. I believe there is an afterlife where our soul will come to rest and how we live our lives here on earth will determine whether we go to Heaven or Hell.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   What's hard to explain is the feeling I felt at the time. It was a feeling of such joy, no more pain and the light was unbelievable. There was a being present that comforted me and I remember being so at ease. I don't think I have ever had that same feeling again.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I was too young to really tell.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was seeing my family cry uncontrollably. The best part was rising up towards the light. Feeling so happy and at peace. No more pain and suffering. Words cannot describe that feeling. I know that I have never felt that way ever again. Hope that I will again someday.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people I've talked to have never experienced anything in their life time. Some I run into are scared and don't want to believe. Some people pretend to ignore events in their own life. I've told very few people. There hasn't been too many people I've met that you can actually talk to about something like this. Without them thinking you're loony.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I believe I was let back into my body for a purpose. I don't yet know why I was sent back. I believe there is something that I will do before I die and that will be the reason.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edwin_a_nde.html