{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edwin_nde.html","mytitle":"Edwin NDE 785","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edwin NDE 785  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edwin NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						295  Edwin NDE  785  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was the 23rd of December, 1969. I was about twelve years old. I remember hearing my mother tell my father that he has to get me to have a haircut, despite at that time that it was in fashion to leave hair long. My mother was very suspicious about this new fashion, as she did not like long hair on boys. My father told her ok, he was going to get me a haircut, so she will stop moaning about it. She knew that I didn't want to have a haircut, so she used my dad to enforce having a haircut since he was a very strict father. The day after the 23rd of December, my dad took me to have a haircut.


We went to the city, to a barber. My dad was busy talking with some friends of his. I was the first one who was on the chair to have a haircut. When I saw my dad busy talking with his friends, I told the barber not to cut my hair very short, only put some stuff on it so it will look different. A few minutes later I was ready and we went back home.


When we reached home, my sister started teasing me again because I had to have a haircut, but I told her that I wasn't cut, it only had some gel put on it. She ran to my mum to tell her that I still had my hair long. When she came and took a closer look at my hair, mum started up on my dad again. Dad had to do something to save his skin from mum, so he told me to go to my room as a punishment and that I'd have to stay there until the next day - until he would get me to the barber again. I remember I wanted to get my hands on my sister. She came in my room to start teasing me again. In my room, there was a Christmas tree and I was standing in front of it looking at the lights going on and off. As soon as I saw my sister in my room, I unscrew one of the lights and threw it in her direction.


I was so depressed that night I felt like I want to cry. I remember the next thing I did was to put my finger in the holder from where I had unscrewed the lamp. I remember the feeling of an electric shock; I was thrown away with the same power. Then I heard my sister shouting. I was near her trying to talk to her and tell her that everything was ok. She was not hearing me, so I try to put my hand on her shoulder but she couldn't feel my hand on her. Then I looked down and saw my body on the floor. I couldn't understand what was going on. Then I was pulled by a vacuum into a dark tunnel and was traveling faster than anything I knew.


There was like pictures of my life coming one after the other. Then I saw a bright light, brighter than the sun, but it was not hurting my eyes. I passed through this light and found myself in a place that was like a room without walls. The walls were made out of atmosphere. There was a stand with a thick book on it and a very old man reading this book. He looked at me and he didn't say anything. But I didn't care who he was. I was staring at the scene behind him. There was a small bridge and many people passing through over this bridge. As soon as they passed this bridge they didn't walk any more, they just floated away. There was crystal water running beyond this bridge and all the people were wearing white.


Then I looked again for that old person that I saw the first time, but he was not there. Instead, there was a man who was shiny and glowing. He reached his hand out and told me to come and see what's in here. At first, I was trying to see in which language he was talking but although it was new for me, I could understand everything he said.


I remember we passed through a lot of people who were singing in some different way I cannot describe, everybody was happy and nobody was thinking about others. They were all looking at a great light in one direction. As soon as we reached the bright light, this man told me that what I was about to see, I would not remember. We passed through this light. I still cannot remember what was behind that light. What I remember for sure is that after we got out of that light the man took me into the first place and told me that I had to go back because my time was not yet come to stay there.


I remember I was crying and begging him to let me stay there. I didn't want to come back to Earth. He put me on his lap, hugged me, and told me don't worry you and I will meet again. I remember I told him I wanted to stay there I don't want to go back. Then he told me don't worry, let me come with you, then all of a sudden, I found myself back in my room with that man. I could see mum was holding my dead body in her arms and all my family was around her. They were crying and I heard my mum crying and saying, 'He's dead, he's dead.' Then that man told me, 'Now you go back in your body.' I refused to go back. I told him I wanted to stay with him. He hug me again, kissed me and told me the same words, 'Don't worry, you and I will meet again.' There was nothing I could do. I found myself back in my body again.


The funny thing was that I was so happy with what I saw that a smile was on my face when I got back in my body and the minute I opened my eyes I heard my sister, 'Look dad he's playing a joke on us. He is smiling.' I ended up with another punishment so I will not play this kind of 'joke' on them again. I kept this story for about thirty years I never told it to anybody.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident     Electrical shockElectrocuted.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It's a feeling that you cannot describe because it is so fantastic.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was living somewhere else.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time does not exist.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Only singing in different tunes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A dark tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A man who had lights coming out of him and many others.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There are no words to describe.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learnt a lot but use it all wrong.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was against my wish.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Only this last eighteen months.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It is hard to describe it the way it really is.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I use everything wrong I could read auras, read minds, OBE, and contact spirits.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the part I don't remember and the worst was when I had to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They want to have the rights to write it as a book.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There is, but I have to keep it for myself.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edwin_nde.html