{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eduardo_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Eduardo D NDE 5427","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eduardo D NDE 5427  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eduardo D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3209 Eduardo D NDE 5427  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Due to a medical mistake, I was administered a double dose of contrast liquid [a dye for CT scans] during a tac [(sic) = transient aplastic crisis].  The first one went outside the vein while the second one was injected correctly.  The liquid had no sooner entered my circulatory system when, according to the doctors, I had a strong reaction (similar to an allergy) against the liquid.  That's when the tragedy began.  In a few seconds, I had renal failure and began to hyperventilate. Then I lost consciousness, or rather, I lost all visual and auditory contact with the world around me.  

I began to feel myself being lifted up and traveling through the air in a dark space that seemed infinite.  In the distance, very far away, I saw a small but very intense light toward which I was traveling at an incredible speed.  Floating along beside me in this space, I saw, like in a roll of camera film, many moving pictures of my personal life.  Pictures from when I was born, to when I was a child, to a boy, to an adult, and all at such a speed that it became incomprehensible how these moving images could be visible at that rate.  Scenes that certainly belonged to my life but which I didn't think I could have remembered anymore. Very beautiful scenes and very important moments in life, and all at a continually accelerating speed until I was about to reach the light shining in the distance of the tunnel.  Then I felt myself pulled away and I regained consciousness in the recovery room. 

Perhaps it wasn't yet my time and someone up there cared a lot about me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  14/05/2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Due to a medical mistake, I was administered a double dose of contrast liquid during a tac [(sic) = transient aplastic crisis?].  The first one went outside the vein, while the second one was injected correctly.  The liquid had no sooner entered my circulatory system, when I had a strong reaction (similar to an allergy), according to the doctors, against the liquid.  That's when the tragedy began.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Only at the beginning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Only at the beginning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     descritto precedentemente

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, but at the same time wonder and amazement at what was happening.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Well, I've certainly been more respectful and grateful in regards the concept of life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With several friends who were incredulous.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Apart from the usual movies, I didn't have a good idea of what NDEs were.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The tunnel experience. Apart from the fact that one might believe to have actually experienced it; is it the fruit of some disturbance or elaborate fantasy of our brain under critical life-or-death conditions, or is it really a case of passing into the great beyond?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eduardo_d_nde.html