{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edward_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Edward B NDE 741","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edward B NDE 741  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edward B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						252  Edward B NDE  741  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I briefly 'saw' both what would be considered Heaven and its counterpart. The terrible torment of those in 'Hell' was far worse than the fire and brimstone crowd preach. It was something akin to spending eternity with those who would harm others in the same fashion as yourself, or conversely eternal loneliness for those who would, for lack of a better phrase, 'fleece' others. The strange thing about the dark place was that it was a place (and no place at the same time) that you went to because of yourself. No one sent you there but yourself, and by the same token only you could get yourself out. Eternity seemed to be more of how you wished it. While Hell was well populated, with millions of souls, it only made a very small dent in the total population of the afterlife. I was struck by the accuracy of the movie 'What Dreams May Come' - which I saw just a couple of months later. Although not the best movie, its portrayal of the afterlife is closer than anything I've ever been able to articulate. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Aug 1999

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The moment of separation wasn't something I felt. It was closer to being asleep and then waking up. One moment I was in horrendous pain, the next I was 'exploring' my new surroundings.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I never thought about it before, but since you asked I would have to say incredibly awake and alert. More so than in regular life.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to have no real meaning. There was continuity, but no linear progression, very hard to explain. Also there was a sense of space, but it seemed to mold itself to thought.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember any sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The tormented souls, in a place that was no place. I felt terror at seeing their torment, and a great sadness and pity for them as I could do nothing for them, nor could anyone else. In the Universe, localized near our planet, were other souls enjoying the afterlife. They seemed as happy as those tormented souls were in anguish and yet, they seemed to be at the bottom rung of happiness. Heaven just seemed to get better the more you kept going, except you weren't traveling. I thought that I was moving toward what can best be described as a welcoming committee. Strangely, I knew that they were waiting for me to get there, and it was composed of a large number of people I knew, but I don't know how I knew this, or whom they were specifically. I guess it was something like knowing that you're going to a party where you're the guest of honor. The party would start when I got to the right 'place' except I never got there.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above. Level or dimension, might be the best way of describing the areas I saw.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     There was a definite sense of order to the universe. It was a given in the same way that gravity is here. There seemed to be a 'purpose'. Something that was simple and elegant, but I never found out what it was.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I seemed to be waiting in the afterlife for Earth time to pass and my decision to stay, to be brought forward in a physical way. I could stay as long as I was dead, but as I had already decided that I was going to cling to an Earthly life, when my heart started again, I was whisked back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Not a change, but a definite strengthening of the beliefs I already had.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The intensity of it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have what others call psychic abilities, and have had them all my life, but they were greatly augmented after. My clairvoyance in particular was much stronger.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the sense of total acceptance. The worst was the sight and empathy of the encounter with the tormented.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I've related it to just a few. Those I told without any questions on their part were of a ho-hum, isn't that nice, I'm sure you believe it attitude. Those who asked seemed disappointed. I think that they wanted to hear a tale of the pearly gates, and how they were going to be redeemed. The truth didn't meet their expectations. I don't talk about it anymore (except this).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I've actually had two NDEs but thought that as they were very similar, I would just describe one.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would add something along the lines of a question about telepathy/empathy with those encountered in the next life.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edward_b_nde.html