{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edna_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Edna C NDE 957","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edna C NDE 957  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edna C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						408  Edna C NDE  957  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the hospital and the nurses and doctors were checking what meds I could, or could not, have because of a medical alert bracelet.  Suddenly I was standing over my body and watching what was going on.  Someone called for the crash cart.  Everyone was racing around.  I thought, well, I must be dead, so what am I supposed to do?  Then I looked to the right.  I floated in the direction of a tunnel and light.  Grandmother was there.  Then, grandfather and my dad, all long dead.


Grandmother told me not to go there.  The time was not yet.  Then I saw a man in flowing white robes with a book.  The book was opened and on it was writing in gold.  The book was white.  He turned the pages and there were blank places on some of the pages.  He told me that this was to show me that there were times when things were blanked out and I remembered no more because I had done things to overcome wrongdoing.


Then a man spoke to me from behind.  He asked me three times why I wanted to die.  My three youngest children were aged eleven, thirteen and fourteen.  So my first response was, my children.


He replied that it was not a good enough reason.  Then he showed me what would happen to the children if I did not go back.  He said that I had provided wisely for my children in case something should ever happen to me.  They would be adopted and raised by a family from the Blood Indian reserve.  They would adjust, be well educated and do very well.


Then he said, 'Now, why do you want to live?'


I replied, 'My vow.'


It was like the gentle voice that was penetrating my being through mental telepathy, had suddenly turned to thunder.  He replied, 'Finally you have remembered your vow.  You have been so busy getting an education, getting a good job and getting ahead in the world, you have put your vow last.  If you are allowed to return you must put your vow first above all else.  Do this and all that you need and even desire will be added to you.  Just one thing.  You will be left with a reminder to put your vow first for the remainder of your life.  A reminder to go slow and not run.'


Then I floated over to my body and entered it through the head and shoulders.


The vow was made ten years previous when I was given three to six months to live.  I promised that if I could live to raise my children, I would serve my people for the rest of my life.  Since that experience I have put the vow first and my life has been richer for it.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Oct 29. 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  From what I noticed, my spirit or consciousness was like my physical body except it wasn't broken and covered in blood like my body at that time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was conscious until the NDE and again right after returning to my body.  The pain was so severe that I wanted to become unconscious, but it didn't happen.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Down a tunnel to a valley of such beauty I cannot describe it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw many people.  Grandmother said that they were aware of me and wanted to meet me when the time was right.  She, grandfather and my father were directly in front of me as I came into the light.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was bright, clear, like a super bright sun shine, yet it did not hurt my eyes like bright sun would.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It was like I knew all that I could ever want to know about any subject and understood our Creator's love of each one of us.  Yet, when I returned to my body, this knowledge was taken away from me.  It was too much for me to handle in this life time, or for others to deal with.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     The book of life was written in a language that I did not know.  I was shown some things briefly, but told that it was just to show me what would happen later when I crossed over to stay.  I didn't learn anything new about that.  Greater tolerance and how to love, even my enemies and those who would try to harm me became a part of my being without even trying to make the change.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Only in so far as it pertained to my life.  It has been very accurate.  Mostly I was told to just live my life as things happened and stop worrying about the future.  A big problem with me previously.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt that I had failed in not keeping my vow and much as I wanted to stay in this beautiful place, I wanted to return to look after my children and prepare them for my eventual departure.  I was relieved to be given a second chance when allowed to return.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Greater love for and understanding of other people.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Words fail me when it comes to explaining the peace and love experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have always had certain psychic gifts.  If these are heightened, I am not sure.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - The peace and love that seemed to go through the core of my being.  Worst - The pain upon returning to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people seem to be quite emotional when I share this experience with them.  Sometimes it helps them to change for the better.  Some are scared and a very few thought that I was hallucinating.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I hope and pray that somehow this experience will help others to see death as a beginning of a new existence and learn to share the love and peace that is within their reach if they will just open up to it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Not that I can think of at this time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edna_c_nde.html