{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eddie_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Eddie H NDE 31843","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eddie H NDE 31843  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eddie H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2502 Eddie H NDE 31843  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On 10/08/2010, I was involve in a very bad car accident. I was hit really bad on the driver’s side of my car. The car that hit me pushed my car into a house pinning me inside the car. I was stuck inside my car between the other car and the house. I was unconscious in my car. The fire department had to use the Jaws of Life to cut me out. While I was in the car, I was unconscious but I saw a white lady dressed in white and she reach out for me with her hand and told me to take her hand and walk to the park with her and I’ll feel no pain! I looked at her in her face but I couldn't see her face! I saw her body and hand but couldn't see her face. It looked like I was looking through a glass cup full of water! She felt so warm and happy! But I didn't take her hand because it felt strange and in the same time I heard far away a person screaming out, ‘can you hear me, can you hear me?’ I was going to grab the lady’s hand but I had flash back of my family who love me and I didn't grab the lady’s hand. I woke up in the ambulance hearing EMS say to me, ‘can you hear me,’ and I said yeah and where was I? He explained to me what happened and I couldn't believe it! During the ride to the hospital, I kept losing consciousness and I kept hearing the lady ask me the same question! Up to now, I’m home after a month in the hospital and I’m not well. I feel really scared and I feel like there is someone watching me everywhere I go! I live in fear of going to sleep and never waking up!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male


    NDE Elements:

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Uncertain

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eddie_h_nde.html