{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edith_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Edith C Probable NDE 3991","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edith C Probable NDE 3991  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edith C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1914 Edith C Probable NDE 3991  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I came into a place where children were playing games, it looked like a public square, a very broad space, where the colors were unusually brilliant to see, and everything seemed very calm, with no anxieties. It was a peacefulness, which is very difficult to put into words. Someone accompanied me. I suppose it would have been a woman, because she had a brown skirt on. Suddenly I saw some children near to me; my attention was drawn to a very pretty little girl. I was very happy and was following her.  Suddenly, I saw a little boy, and he was sad. He tried to come near me, but the little girl whispered something to him and sent him away from me. I tried to reach him (the little girl was smiling at me), I stretched out my arm and the little boy just turned around, as if asking me for something. The 'person' at my side guided me in the other direction. When I woke up, I was in the operating-theater, and I remember I felt full of anguish, started to cry, I wanted to go back to that place, and asked the doctor to let me go there.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1997
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   In the hospital they gave me no information, but there were bruises on my body which nobody gave me any explanation for.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   At the beginning.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the beginning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more brilliant, and each thing was illuminated in a way I never saw before nor since the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember, I just felt I was being accompanied by someone.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were playing and when I came there they approached. I didn't know them, communication was telepathic, I didn't hear them speak, but it was as if I knew what they were telling me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don't remember. I just know I was walking, and came into this marvelous place.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     El lugar en si era maravilloso , la paz que habia no la volvi asentir mas.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A great peace, difficult to express, I have never felt it again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I live life in a different way, I am attentive to living beings and I try to get others to see nature from a different perspective.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I (always) had this feeling, but it became more assured after this event, it is as if I know with greater certainty.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more at ease, I say what I feel. Many people don't accept me, as I often warn them about things; I think this alarms many people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Where I felt a peace which is very difficult to express, and which I had never felt in my life before.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With a few people, after some years. Only one person was interested in what happened to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Something had happened to me, but I had no way to explain it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Something continues after death. My father communicates with me since his death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edith_c_probable_nde.html