{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1edna_nde.html","mytitle":"Edna NDE 4965","mylang":"de"}
          	        Edna NDE 4965  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Edna NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2556 Edna NDE 4965  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience started with a terrible pain in my chest, followed by a sinking, falling feeling. Then I found myself floating near the ceiling - level with the clock - and I was looking down and seeing my physical body being tended by three medical staff. I then went down a blue flume-like tube with a bright light at the bottom. As I was floating through this tube, I could hear snippets of conversations from my past. On exiting the tube, I was surrounded by the most wonderful music - similar to panpipes. This music was everywhere and the feeling was so peaceful and pain-free. I asked, 'Where am I?' and was told 'The Halls of Music.' There seemed to be a lot of people, and they were all exuding so much love. I went outside to the most wonderful blue sky and green grass. There was a bridge. I asked to cross it, but I could not - there was some kind of invisible barrier. Someone I felt I knew appeared on the other side of the bridge, (I still do not know for certain who it was, but I think it was my grandfather) and he said, 'It is not time yet, you still have work to do.' I wanted so much to stay, but in next to no time I was back in my body and in immense pain again. Even though this happened nearly thirty years ago, I still remember it vividly.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  06 May 1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Preeclampsia during childbirth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was at the bridge asking to cross it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was at the bridge asking to cross it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I left a place where I was in so much pain and went to a place that was so bright and vivid, magical, peaceful, pain-free and with the most amazing music - music which I had never heard before or since.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A blue flume-like tube with a bright white light at the end.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were definitely other beings, but I did not/could not see their faces. The being on the other side of the bridge was wearing a white gown but, again, I could not see the face. I felt it was my grandfather.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light at the end of the tube/tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was "told" it was the Halls of Music.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peace, happiness. And I was pain-free.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not actual events, but I heard snippets of conversations from my past, e.g. my mother shouting my name.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I could not cross the bridge and was told it was not time yet, that I had still work to do.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not believe any religion. Just Universal Life.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not believe any religion. Just Universal Life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was somewhere special. I actually thought I had died.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I do not tolerate people who show any signs of being dishonest, insincere or violent - no matter who they are - even family. We must love and respect each other.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being told it was not time yet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day. Everyone I have told has believed me and has seemed to be in awe.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I did have a little knowledge about them, as I am interested in the paranormal, due to previous physic experiences I've had.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was, and still remains, so vivid - I can see it all now as if it is happening again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience is with me every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1edna_nde.html