{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1earl_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Earl W NDE 193","mylang":"de"}
          	        Earl W NDE 193  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Earl W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						653  Earl W NDE  193  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  				  December 27, 1977: I was a self-employed stained glass contractor. I was on my way to a church to give them a bid on new stained-glass windows.


It was approximately 8 am. Going around a curve, I saw a logging truck in the opposite lane. Suddenly, a car came around the log truck into my lane. Next, I am floating above the accident scene watching two ambulance attendants take me out of my pickup. They said, ‘Well, we don't have to worry about this one.’


It started getting dark. Then I started moving. Faster and faster. Darker and darker, like I'm in a tunnel. I see a pinpoint of light. Brighter and brighter. Sudden stop.


I'm standing. Facing the most perfect person I have ever seen. The light was coming from him. He was the light. I recognize him as Jesus Christ. I have the most wonderful feeling of peace. He said, ‘I'm sorry, you can't stay, there is something you must do.’


Next, I'm lying on a table. A nurse is asking me if I know who I am. They sent me by ambulance to the hospital to see a specialist because my face was shattered and cut. He said I was fine. Spent an hour sewing me up. Next day, I was back at work. Twenty-five years later, I'm still wondering what it is I'm supposed to do.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    December 27, 1977

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death


  					 How do you consider the content of your experience?      Increase

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I watched them pull me out of my pickup and put me on a stretcher and load me into the ambulance.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A rushing sound when I started to move.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Lutheran   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Lutheran   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:


Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the peace of being at home with Christ. The worst part was not being able to stay.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1earl_w_nde.html