{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ebin_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Ebin M NDE 867","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ebin M NDE 867  			  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ebin M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						346  Ebin M NDE  867  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was completely passed out from inebriation.  Then it was as if I had awakened to see my body and everyone in the room surrounding me from the second floor.  Only there was no second floor, only the ceiling. I was floating upwards towards a bright light. That lasted for what seemed to be moments of frustration of me trying to communicate and ask everyone what was wrong. Very confusing indeed.


Next, I was in the bright light and was speaking to dead relatives. They told me not to worry and that everything was okay. Then it ended and the next thing I remember is the twenty below air hitting me as I was being loaded into an ambulance. A friend had saved my life with his fireman's training and I was changed forever. I was innocent no longer. The only way to describe it is as if I had gone from an innocent naked child of the Garden of Eden to an incredibly aware teenager that had a sixth sense that scared the hell out of me then and still does to this day. It would take me years to explain. I have no fear of dying!!! I only have fear of the future. I have made many frightening predictions that have come true. They are too many to explain and count. I have been nicknamed Radar.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1970

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident  Drank severe amounts of alcohol and ingested unknown quantities of drugs.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Alcohol poisoning. Stopped breathing and heart stopped. Revived by fireman friend of mine.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Just a normal form, but sort of translucent and white. Everything and everyone was white.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely high during the experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There seemed to be no time at all towards the end of the experience.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not that I can remember.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     But not for long.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Dead family members, some that I had never even met.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright and white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I can see and sense good and evil. Even knowing that bad things will come out of a good person.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     But too detailed to remember it all or describe it.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Frighteningly accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Sometimes more confusion because of too much information, much like an overloaded hard drive. Too much instinct. I feel myself ignoring things I should be developing. I am extremely cynical and a stark realist.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Who would believe you unless it happened to them too. I have only met two people that had similar circumstances. One was a drowning and one was from surgery. I scared both of them with my perception. People do not believe you, so you shut up and become an introvert.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I see things that have happened to people I didn't know. I see evil. I see well. And I sometimes predict future events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Knowing the answers to questions I didn't want to ask.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Forget it, I must be crazy or something. Only two people ever believed me, and they had the experience also.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I cannot explain at this time. The answers are there. All of them.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Make it shorter.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ebin_m_nde.html