{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ed_w_nde.html","mytitle":"E.D. W NDE 7470","mylang":"de"}
          	        E.D. W NDE 7470  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					E.D. W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3811 E.D. W NDE 7470  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					First off, I was very religious and believed in God at the time and I still do.  What I experienced haunts me to this day and I don't understand it.  I remember driving to a friend's house.  I was sitting down and chatting.  

The next thing I remember, I was in a huge black square with small white dots. Throughout the square, it was like I was in space. I was in the center and I couldn't see myself at the time, but I heard loud ear-piercing banging.  It sounded far away, but with every bang, it was getting closer.  I heard a loud voice say, ‘This is how it began and how it will end.’ I felt so alone and afraid.  The word ‘void’ kept popping up in my mind. Everything was black, except the small white dots.  One dot was right in front of me, but it seemed a million miles away. Then everything switched over and I was somewhere else.  It was all was black again.  I felt as if I was in space.  

Then I heard my name, over and over again.  All around me were things like demons and monsters. It felt like they were trying to tear off my body parts.  At the upper right corner of wherever I was at, I could see someone.  There was no face, but it was a male figure. He screamed my name and grabbed my hand before it was too late. I reached out and felt someone pulling me in their direction.  I heard, ‘Is she breathing? Is she breathing?’  

Then I was alone and afraid, back in the black square.  The loud banging was getting closer and closer.  It was so lonely and cold, I can't describe it.  But again, the word ‘void’ was in my head.  It was the loud voice that kept saying in between the banging, ‘This is how it began and how it will end.’  I kept feeling the loneliness, and it was so cold, so dark, and so loud.  Finally, the bang was right beside me.  Again, I heard the voice saying, ‘This is how it began and how it will end.’  There were no more white dots, no more voice.  I just heard the continuous ear-piercing bang and I heard, ‘You're done.’  I thought, ‘Oh my! I'm dead!’  I was just there. I still couldn't see myself and I was so alone.  

I'm not sure how long I was like that, but the next thing was that I awoke to people performing CPR (Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation) on me.  I didn't know who I was or were I was.  All I knew was that there were people standing around saying ‘E.D.’ I didn't know that was me; I knew nothing.  I lost consciousness.  I woke up strapped down in an ambulance because I didn't know who I was or where I was. I knew nothing.  I then projectile vomited all over myself and the Emergency Medical Technician.  I arrived at hospital, lost consciousness and woke up two days later. 

The woman and man in my room seemed familiar.  My memory started coming back slowly.  I recognized my mother and brother.  From what my friend and their neighbor said, I came to visit them.  We went out to eat, got back home, and I walked to the back porch to smoke a cigarette.  I got a weird glazed-over look in my eyes. I was standing on the top porch step and started seizing.  I fell 7 feet, landing on my face and head.  After, I came back to consciousness two days later, the doctors, my friends, and mom started filling me in on what happened.  I still don't remember seizing, falling, breaking my nose and cheekbone, or my head injury.  The doctors told me that I had stopped breathing several times.  The first two times, CPR brought me back.  The last two times, I had to be shocked to get my heart beating again.  

I was released a few days later into my mother's care.  In the days to follow, I felt that loneliness, cold, and dark feelings. The word ‘void’ is still in my head. The demons, monsters or whatever they are, is in my head all the time now.  At the very end, I heard a voice say, ‘Tell all, this is how it begins and how it ends.’ When I looked out, I saw a big war.  I've tried to explain it to a few people and they look at me as if I'm crazy.  I've had a couple doctors tell me that I had a near death experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/3/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury.  Seizure that led to me falling sustaining a bead and face injuries.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function).   I stopped breathing due to having a seizure and falling 7 feet down steps, breaking my nose, cheek bone, knocking two teeth out and a severe head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was seeing things: beings, demons. It was so cold, I couldn't breathe or inhale.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the outer space event when the demons, monsters or whatever they were was trying to pull my body parts off. Out of all those mean viscous beings I heard a man say ‘E.D., grab my hand’. The joy I felt it was short lived because I went back to the black void-less box.  At the very end I heard a voice say, ‘tell all, this is how it begins and how it ends’, and when I looked out I saw a big war.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The demons, monsters or whatever were 3-D looking and moving so fast it was a blur.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything that happened, in what I consider my NDE, was ear-piercing loud, I thought my ears were going to rupture.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     At the very end, when the banging stopped and the voice said, at the very end I heard a voice say: ‘tell all, this is how it begins and how it ends’ and when I looked out I saw a big war.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     What I encountered was pure evil, darkness, flesh-eating demons.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There were 2 different places I was in, the first was the clack box but you could sense you were in space, the other place it was like a ship or something in space were the demons were trying to rip me apart.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared, alone, afraid, cold, helpless

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I mean I'm a Christian so for me to be having all this to-do in space and demons and ships in space, I want to know what that means.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My past flashed before me; it was out of my control.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw a large war, millions of people fighting for the cause. I never understood what that meant though.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   At the very end, the voice said, ‘this is how it began and how it ends’. I was looking at the tiny pinhole of light and I felt someone helping me towards it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   i have always been religious and believed in God which i still but but what i experienced was, panic,fear,void,darkness

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I have always been religious and believed in God which I still do, but what I experienced was, panic, fear, void, darkness.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   i have always been religious and believed in God which i still but but what i experienced was, panic,fear,void,darkness

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As I said before, I'm Christian.  I love and believe in God, so why did I see all these demons and monsters in space?  Even after I got out of hospital, I have recurring nightmares about this.  I'm truly confused.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice that kept saying my name , was the same voice that pulled me away from the flesh-eating demons and was the same voice that said  ‘tell all, this is how it begins and how it ends’; and when I looked out I saw a big war.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   What I encountered was pure evil, darkness, flesh eating demons

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The void is what I was told connects is were we go the voice told me

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw many demons flesh eating deans

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     to me it just ended i was all alone cold and afraid i could actually my last breath

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life; the reoccurring nightmares of the flesh-eating demons, the loneliness, the darkness, I wake up screaming in a cold sweat.     Large changes in my life; the reoccurring nightmares of the flesh-eating demons, the loneliness, the darkness, I wake up screaming in a cold sweat.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've become withdrawn.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I just can’t explain how cold, alone, the complete darkness, the ear-piercing bangs, the beings whatever they were trying to rip me apart, and the words over and over: ‘this is how it began and how it will end’. There I was all alone and so cold, thinking I'm dead and this is it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     There have been several times I’ll start smothering and call mom, even in my sleep I’ll dream it, wakeup and call her. I've had several dreams and have told her before about them then something very similar happens soon, just like I dreamed it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've only told my mother. Mom thinks my NDE is why I'm having these dreams. I don't want to talk about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was scary, but I know what I felt and saw. I think there's a message for me somewhere to have to go through this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt united or one with the world. Christian   I have always been religious and believed in God which I still do, but what I experienced was, panic, fear, void, darkness. As I said before I'm Christian.  I love and believe in God. So why did I see all these demons and monsters in space? Even since I got out of the hospital I have recurring nightmares about this, I'm truly confused ever since. The void is what, I was told, connects where we go (the voice told me).To me it just ended, I was all alone, cold, and afraid. I could actually feel my last breath.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ed_w_nde.html