{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ed_h_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ed H Possible NDE 2173","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ed H Possible NDE 2173  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ed H Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						599  Ed H Possible NDE  2173  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was five years old and had pneumonia. I knew I was really sick when dad slept on the sofa and I slept in his bed with my mother. I don't know if I died in my sleep that night or not, all I can tell you is what happened.

I became aware and found myself being drawn to a light. It was a huge golden sphere. Absolutely perfect. No variance in color, shading, or brightness. No blemish of any kind. I was afraid but as soon as the fear entered my consciousness, I received a communication. I heard a voice say, 'Do not be afraid, you will not be harmed. Do not approach any closer for you will not survive. The golden orb is a shield protecting you from my presence.' I not only heard it, I saw the words appear on a blackboard in my mind, and the pronunciation and meaning of the letters and words was revealed to me. I was five years old and I understood perfectly every word that was spoken to me. I sensed that the orb was absolutely perfect in every way. It had never had an evil or bad thought. It had never made a mistake in judgment. It had never taken an incorrect action. It existed in a state where it was simply not possible for it to be anything but perfect in all ways.

Suddenly it spoke etc., to me again saying, 'It is not yet your time, you must return. But, before you go, I wish to tell you three things. Practice these things for you will use them in my service when you return to me.' It was revealed to me that the order of the three things were by importance, the first being the most important. The voice went on to say, 'First, acquire knowledge for you will use it to better serve me. Second, learn to love for you will need to love to serve me. And third, do good works so that you may better do them in my name.' With that I felt myself being drawn back to my body and woke up the next morning felling much better.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1955  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness        Other Pneumonia  Pneumonia.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The meaning of words was being revealed to me even as I heard them. I wasn't even in kindergarten yet but I knew what 'acquire' and 'knowledge' meant, how to pronounce them, and even how to spell them. I knew what was meant by 'do good works'.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After being told not to be afraid.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed to be a tunnel of misty darkness.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     In the beginning of the experience, while still in the misty dark tunnel, I felt the presence of others. It was as if they were there to guide me but were reluctant to do so.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw what I knew to be an absolutely perfect golden orb.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, awe, peace, love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None, I was 5 years old.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Agnostic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The meaning of words were revealed to me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Being so young it did not seem real. It was years later before I knew it was impossible for a five year old to simply imagine something so profound that it became real for me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I now know that this is not something a five year old dreams up.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ed_h_possible_nde.html