{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1duane_nde_22433.html","mytitle":"Duane NDE 22433","mylang":"de"}
          	        Duane NDE 22433  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Duane NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2576 Duane NDE 22433  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I underwent a seven hour operation in a heart and lung hospital. After I was taken in to the operating theatre, my brother arrived at the hospital and was told I was in surgery. He left the hospital without seeing me and before the operation finished.

A couple of days later I told him that I had seen him during the operation. He laughed and said that I couldn't have. He then asked me what he was doing, ND I then proceeded to describe what I had seen. I described his exact clothing, and the exact place that he was standing in and I also told him what he had under his arm and what he was doing. I think that it troubled him because his eyes welled up and he has never spoken to me about it since, he did confirm that I was one hundred percent correct on all points.

A couple of days later I was informed by a surgeon of what had happened to me during the operation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death   During an operation my body went into shock, my heart stopped and I ceased breathing for a short time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not have any form or body; I just was, if that is understandable. I had no physical feeling of temperature or any feeling of emotion, either happy, sad or otherwise. I was just awareness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the experience I was fully aware of the surroundings.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I no regard for time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard no sound during for the most part, however I do recall a slight whoosh noise somewhere during the experience. However I put this down to hospital equipment during the operation.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I knew I was in the hospital but had no other knowledge of the building or of any other place during this.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my brother, but there was no communication.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a light source, but it seemed to be behind me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The only sense I had was sight but not with physical eyes, it was more like just an awareness.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have no real religious belief now as a result of this event. I also have no fear of dying. I no longer see possessions as important in one’s life, only more of a necessary burden. I have become less selfish and more giving and forgiving as a result, also more lenient.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I would describe my own gut instinct to be better tuned since this event.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part of the experience was the enlightenment and the knowledge it brought.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    To some it brings comfort, but others see it as a joke. Some are open minded.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am not a religious person and I am also a very educated person. Until this happened to me I was an open skeptic regarding after life, ghosts etc. Now I firmly believe that when we die we do carry on and who knows, maybe we are reincarnated.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Add a question: Would I be afraid of having this experience again?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1duane_nde_22433.html