{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dustin_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Dustin M NDE 2635","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dustin M NDE 2635  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dustin M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						861  Dustin M NDE  2635  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had been poisoned from the water in a duplex apt my fiancΘe and I had rented after eloping. The local hospital was a private facility and sent me home with antibiotics and pain killers. We had no heat and the temperature was in the twenties at the time with a wind chill in the teens. We had one blanket and no money to get help. After battling for one and a half days with diarrhea and vomiting, I passed out. While unconscious, I stopped breathing and my fiance could not find a pulse or heartbeat. She administered CPR and revived me. During this time, I had either a hallucination or some kind of event where I spoke with a group of deceased family members. They greeted me but quickly told me that it wasn't my time. Shortly afterwards I was pulled backwards away from them as if I was tied to a tether and after a popping sound, like Eustachian tubes clearing, I returned to consciousness.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Oct 1989  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other Clinical death not verified via physician.  No heart beat detected & no respiration.  Happened at home.  Had acute amoebic dysentery, severe dehydration and fever.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the vision, then several hours later.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     No surface tension under my feet. No sense of gravity.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The area surrounding my family members was blurred, almost like tunnel-vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a fluid background, like waves in open sea or a container of water being shaken.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a tube on arrival, with a sudden stop at my family. I was pulled backwards in the same fashion.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Behind my relatives, illuminating them.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and sorrow at first, then a brief moment of happiness when I saw my family.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Conservative Christianity, as taught to me in organized churches, takes a hypocritical view of the paranormal. It depicts instance after instance of these events in the Bible but modern clergy refute them as either misunderstanding of the scripture or metaphors not to be taken literally. I have begun to take time to learn about the history of my faith, its politics and most of all its self-editing. I still believe in the power of the teachings of Christ but now I search for more than the sources of knowledge I was apportioned in childhood.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Conservative Christianity, as taught to me in organized churches, takes a hypocritical view of the paranormal. It depicts instance after instance of these events in the Bible but modern clergy refute them as either misunderstanding of the scripture or metaphors not to be taken literally. I have begun to take time to learn about the history of my faith, its politics and most of all its self-editing. I still believe in the power of the teachings of Christ but now I search for more than the sources of knowledge I was apportioned in childhood.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My death no longer is a source of fear, except for its effects on my family. Whether there is a heaven or hell in the classical sense, I am certain there is another plane of existence and that has allowed me to take a more laid-back approach to crisis management and freed me resources to focus on my family.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I had psychic events prior and have had several paranormal experiences since but I do not know if they are caused by me or if I'm just a spectator.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not at the time because I was so young, but later, as I matured, it helped to solidify my belief that there is an afterlife. It also allowed me to become an intercessor or comforter in family death situations afterwards.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately told me fiancΘe, (now my wife), and then years later told friends. Unknown if it affected them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I am a voracious reader. I also had been visited by deceased relatives in previous years.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was very young and initially saw it more mundanely as a byproduct of my fever and little more than a hallucination. I knew the instance was real for my mind but was still uncertain of the source.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Since the event I have had other re-enforcing events that have helped shape my view of that night. Having asked direct questions of an unseen entity and received direct answers finally changed my world view.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Similar events were reproduced via meditation and attempts at OBE's, i.e. astral projection or remote viewing.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dustin_m_nde.html