{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__richardson___the_brotherhood_of_man.pdf","mytitle":"The Brotherhood Of Man","mylang":"de"}
The
Brotherhood
ofJIan
by
J. E. Richardson
Author of
Vols. II, III, IV, V
and
Editor of Vol. I
HARMONIC SERIES
THE GREAT SCHOOL
OF NATURAL SCIENCE
Copyright 1955
by
The Great School of Natural Science
Published July, 1955
^tddreAAed
to
4
ence
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
The Problem Presented I 7
Labor and Social Brotherhoods II 11
Religious and Fraternal Brotherhoods .... Ill 18
Political Brotherhoods (Socialism) IV 23
Competition and Cooperation V 31
Political Brotherhoods (Anarchism) VI 40
Political Brotherhoods (Communism) .... VII 45
The Definition of The Great School .... VIII 52
The Problem Resolved IX 61
Nature's Moral Standard X 65
Individual Education XI 69
Qualifications for Membership XII 75
The True Brotherhood of Man XIII 80
CHAPTER I
THE PROBLEM PRESENTED
The Brotherhood of Man is an expression which
has been used by students and thinkers throughout
the entire world. The idea has been taught through-
out the ages. It has been the objective of all great
philosophers and Masters; but among all of these
there is not one who claims to have originated it.
It is the very foundation of the ethical structure
of all the great religions and philosophies of the
world.
And yet, it would seem to be an expression
which no two individuals understand alike. The
various definitions to be found in the literature of
all countries fully verify this statement.
It is because of the fact that the expression has
been used by students, teachers, thinkers and phil-
osophers in a manner as to indicate a very hazy
understanding of its basic meaning that a definition
and elucidation of the subject from the standpoint
of The Great School of Natural Science was
undertaken.
Among the definitions which have been found
in literature and taught, some of the following
may be of more than ordinary interest:
"The Brotherhood of Man is the harmonious
relation which each individual must sustain to-
ward him or herself, and toward all mankind, to
conform to nature's ethical principles."
THK BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
"The Brotherhood is the universal spirit of
unity to be established and exemplified by every
individual in daily conduct."
"The lofty state of life in which men seek to
serve each other and God continuously, construc-
tively and unselfishly."
"It is the intelligent, constructive, cooperative
motives, efforts and conduct of individual entities,
thereby constituting a human fraternity."
"The Brotherhood of Man is the reaching of
mankind to that stage in its evolutionary progress
wherein it will live in harmony and cooperation,
free from religious, racial and social prejudices
and its dire consequences, like children well bred
in one good regulated family who are ruled by
one wise father, fed and readied by one loving
mother."
" * * * is the ideal concept of constructive co-
operation in all things, under all conditions, at all
times, between the units of human society."
"A term used to express the thought that all
mankind represents one family of brothers and
sisters claiming fathership in God and that as such,
each is equally entitled to life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness."
"It is the relationship which exists between
human souls when the spirit of love has dispelled
all darkness of misunderstanding and only good
will toward ALL remains to unite each and every
soul into a harmonious whole."
"In the family and social relations there must
be recognition of a common brotherhood to be the
inspiration and obligation of all corporal life."
"Love and Service to humanity — a state that
THE PROBLEM PRESENTED
can only be attained through living in harmony
with one's fellowmen of all nations and creeds."
"It is man's recognition and application of his
true relationship to God and his fellowman; or,
we might say,—the thing most talked of and least
practiced."
"When the race has developed under the uni-
versal principles of harmony to a recognition of
its spiritual kinship and its cosmic responsibility;
when the world has become the great Temple of
God and in each heart abides Love, Tolerance,
Charity—that shall be The Brotherhood of Man."
"It is—to the best of one's resources to enhance
the prosperity and welfare of the community of
one's fellow-brethren and of all mankind in gen-
eral."
"To love all men."
"The Brotherhood of Man is the keystone of the
triumphant arch, representing the gateway to abun-
dant life."
All of the foregoing definitions are individual
understandings of the meaning and significance of
the expression
—
The Brotherhood of Man.
From the various concepts expressed it would
seem that this most familiar and vital expression,
though in common use throughout many hundreds
of years and in virtually every civilization of earth,
still fails to convey—even to men and women of
lofty intelligence far above the general average
—
any single, definite, distinct and unequivocal mean-
ing or concept. It is still open to interpretation by
anyone who employs it or hears it. This means
that, so far as the general public is concerned, the
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
term has never been so defined as to bring it clearly
and definitely within the limits of exact science.
Nevertheless, there is a scientific basis upon
which The Brotherhood of Alan becomes as much
and as truly a fact of nature as the planet on which
we live, or the central sun about which our earth
revolves. Moreover, the School of Wisdom where-
in the demonstration of its practicality has been
made is neither a myth, a dream, a fancy nor an
illusion; it is an institution that has existed since
the "memory of man runneth not to the contrary."
Hence it is that I am impelled to formulate into
clear and definite English the definition of the
Great and Ancient School of Wisdom, that it may
be used as a Master Key by which any and all indi-
viduals may determine the scientific value of the
various "Brotherhoods" among mankind as they
exist today.
Before doing this, however, it will be helpful
to have definitely in mind the various institutions
which represent the best efforts of mankind, of the
present day and generation, to organize themselves
into specific groups and shall represent their vari-
ous and somewhat conflicting ideas as to the funda-
mental Principle at the basis of "The Brotherhood
of Man," as well as the many Brotherhoods Among
Men.
10
CHAPTER II
LABOR AND SOCIAL BROTHERHOODS
That we may begin at the beginning and follow
the trail of the general concept back of all "Broth-
erhood," let us first consider the generic term out
of which all specific concepts of brotherhood have
developed. This is the term "Brother." What is
the most direct and definite meaning and concept
given to the word?
The primary and fundamental meaning given to
it by Webster's New International Dictionary is:
"A male person, considered in his relation to
another person having the same parents."
Within this meaning, two men are "brothers"
only when they have the same father and mother.
By extension of this meaning to the animal, below
man, it means two male animals having the same
parents.
It will be observed, however, that this primary
meaning has reference only to the purely physical
relation—the tie of blood—otherwise designated as
the relation of consanguinity. In the very early
development of our language, let it be remembered
that this was the only sense in which the terms
"brother," "brothers" and "brotherhood" were em-
ployed. Hence, it is only by the operation of the
law governing the evolution of our language that
these primary terms, through variation, extension,
11
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
adaptation and growth came to suggest a number
of other and different meanings.
Before proceeding to a consideration of these
later developments, let us observe and note another
item that is of some importance, in that there seems
to have been inducted a new concept into the evolu-
tionary development of the term, "Brotherhood."
For, we now have in mind the fact that, in its
inception, the term had reference to the purely
physical relation, and nothing more. But the
purely physical, or blood relation of kinship, in
some way not altogether clear, later came to imply
that this blood relationship between brothers car-
ried with it a natural concomitant of love or affec-
tion which does not exist between the male mem-
bers of different families. For illustration, between
you and your own physical brother (that is, an-
other boy whose parents are your own father and
mother) there is a deeper, more intense and en-
during affection than is possible between you and
any other boy who is born of other parents than
your own father and mother.
The question we are here facing is whether this
implication is true. This is a matter of much graver
significance and importance than would seem to
appear upon the surface. For, if it is found to be
not true, or is, in fact, untrue, what ethical signifi-
cance, if anv, has the relationship existing between
blood brothers, which does not likewise—and in
equal measure—exist between the men of different
families, or even of different tribes or races of man-
kind? There can be little doubt that those who
accept the St. James version of the Christian Bible
as authoritative, will accept the historic fnct thnt
12
LABOR AND SOCIAL BROTHERHOODS
Cain was the first male child of Adam and Eve,
and that Abel was the second. Hence, they were
both boys, born of the same father and mother, and
therefore physical brothers, or blood brothers,
namely, brothers by the law of consanguinity. But
is it not equally true (Gen. iv., 8) that "Cain rose
up against Abel, his brother, and slew him"? Why?
If the Bible is true, Cain became "very wroth,"
because the Lord accepted the offering of Abel in
preference to that of Cain, his elder brother. Tt was
evidently the green-eyed monster "Jealousy" that
impelled Cain to do this dastardly deed. He did
it, nevertheless. And is it not true that thereby he
established the fact that, as between these, the very
first two brothers—by the ties of blood relationship
—the bond of affection was an exceedingly flimsv,
unreliable and inadequate tie? Read the entire
fourth chapter of Genesis, in this connection, and
think it over.
Observe also the following which would seem to
indicate that the tie of blood relationship may not
be as close (in fact )as the tie of friendship may
be in some instances. "There is a friend that stick-
eth closer than a brother'' (Prov. 18, 24.) If this
has any meaning or significance, it would seem very
clearly to indicate that there is a quality of friend-
ship that is more to be relied upon than is the blood
relationship of brothers—especially that quality of
brotherhood which is based upon the tie of which
we speak so often and so familiarly.
Moreover, it is safe to assume that personal ex-
perience and observation on the part of those who
have given the subject sufficient consideration to
speak without prejudice, will convince the reader
13
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
that brotherhood by the physical tic of blood alone
docs not contain the vital elements that will success-
fully sustain the institution to which we refer when
we speak of "The Brotherhood of Man."
By the natural evolution of the word, it has come
to include those related to, or closely united with,
their fellows by some common tie or interest, as of
rank, profession, or membership in a society. In
this case the tie, or bond, upon which the brother-
hood rests wholly transcends that of blood relation-
ship. It is much broader in scope and is founded
upon the mutual bond of a common tie or interest.
In other words, its purpose is to group mankind
together, quite regardless of family ties or blood
relationships, into associations that bring them to-
gether upon the basis of some mutual tie or interest
wherein they all share.
Under this head, for instance, we have: The
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers; the Broth-
erhood of Carpenters; the Brotherhood of Barbers;
the Brotherhood of Fruit Growers; the Junior
Order of American Mechanics; the American
Federation of Labor, the C. I. O., etc.
Let us take any of these Brotherhoods, as the
Brotherhood of Carpenters, for purposes of study
and comparison. Here the individuals have associ-
ated themselves together because of their mutual
tie or interest in a certain business, that of building,
or repairing wooden structures, etc. Around this
mutual interest they organize a "Brotherhood" and
give it a name. They formulate certain By-laws,
rules and regulations by which the members agree
to be governed, for the good of all. Therein they
14
LABOR AND SOCIAL BROTHERHOODS
mutually agree to pay certain membership fees,
dues and assessments, and perform certain services,
as compensation for certain mutual benefits they
shall be permitted to share because of such mem-
bership.
It will be observed that this is only a very limited
sort of brotherhood, although it is broader than
the brotherhood of family ties and blood relation-
ships. True, it may include blood brothers also;
but it may, and generally does, include a vastly
larger number who sustain no blood relationship
to each other at all.
There is a distinct and definite sense in which it
may justly be regarded as a selfish institution, in
that it has in mind and in purpose the advantage
of its members only. It does not look, with any
degree of approval, or concern, upon the welfare
of those who are not within the ranks of its mem-
bership. Indeed, experience shows that it generally
arrays itself in opposition to the best interest of
such carpenters (within the scope of its business
jurisdiction) as fail, neglect or refuse to identify
themselves with it as members. They may, and
often do, even seek to drive such non-members of
its profession, or business, from the field of its
operations that its members may control such busi-
ness and thereby greatly profit from the misfor-
tunes of their fellow carpenters who do not wish
to become members of such a brotherhood. It thus
becomes a competitor against those of its fellow
carpenters who exercise their right of choice to
remain outside and attempt to carry on their busi-
ness, trade or profession independently. It cooper-
15
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
atcs only with its members and competes with all
others of its profession.
Inasmuch as we are seeking for the fundamental,
scientific principle upon which to establish a real
"Brotherhood of Man," docs the above character
of institution meet the conditions and requirements
of a Brotherhood that shall seek to benefit all man-
kind, all businesses, trades, occupations, professions
and callings, as well as all races, sexes, colors and
previous conditions of servitude? There are reasons
to justify our not thinking so.
There are, however, other expressions of the
Law of Evolution which bring us to another ex-
tension of the meaning and significance of the term
Brotherhood.
In this instance, the common tie of interest may
be of a purely social nature, as in case of a social
club. Otherwise the same general conditions obtain
as exist in a purely business brotherhood. That is
to say, the members assume certain obligations and
responsibilities, in return for the privileges, plea-
sures, conveniences and benefits they are permitted
to enjoy with each other in the club. In this case,
however, as in that of the business brotherhood, the
purpose to be accomplished is solely for the benefit
and pleasure of its members. It is a strictly exclu-
sive association and of a purely selfish nature.
Under the broadest and most liberal interpretation
that could be given such a club, it is in no sense an
altruistic association or brotherhood. It docs not
even intend to be of service or help to any but its
own members.
Hence, the fundamental principle upon which
such a brotherhood is based does not seem to be
16
LABOR AND SOCIAL BROTHERHOODS
sufficiently broad or universal as to include all man-
kind. This fact, of its narrow limitations alone,
would seem to suggest that it is fatally defective in
the elements necessary to sustain a brotherhood
such as we all have in mind when we speak of "The
Brotherhood of Man."
17
CHAPTER III
RELIGIOUS AND FRATERNAL BROTHERHOODS
By another evolutionary extension, we arrive at
the door of the religious or philosophic Brother-
hood. Here we arise to the level of the intellectual,
the moral, the religious and the spiritual elements
that enter into the composite nature of humanity.
As a basis for analysis and study let us consider
the religious Brotherhood first. For the purpose of
making our efforts definite and specific, let us take
any one of the various Christian brotherhoods,
such, for instance, as the Baptist church.
Here we find that the mutual tie and interest
which sustain the organization are, among other
things:
1. Acceptance of a certain definitely defined,
dogmatic religious belief.
2. Acceptance of certain church rules and regu-
lations.
3. Social and spiritual fellowship, within certain
limitations.
4. A limited education in religious doctrines and
church discipline.
5. A work of propaganda for the purpose of
bringing non-members into membership, in that
particular church, and thus increase its members
as far as may be possible.
There may be some other considerations of mu-
tual interest which enter, to some extent, into the
18
RELIGIOUS AND FRATERNAL BROTHERHOODS
bond or tie which brings the members of such a
church, or brotherhood, together into mutual asso-
ciation.
Even here, however, in a character of brother-
hood which is founded upon such a goodly number
of fundamental elements and principles of life, it
would be difficult to conceive that we have re-
moved all the limitations which make this also a
limited brotherhood, and exclude from its mem-
bership a very large percentage of the human
family. A Baptist brotherhood cannot open the
doors of its membership to a Catholic, a Moham-
medan, a Hindu nor an Atheist; and this excludes
a considerable percentage of the earth's inhabitants.
Hence, in the Brotherhood of Baptists have we yet
located the real "Brotherhood of Man"? Have we
the good of all men in mind? It would seem not.
However, we have yet another evolutionary
extension of the idea of Brotherhood, in the purely
fraternal organizations, such as the Masonic Broth-
erhood, the Odd Fellows, the Knights of Pythias,
and other similar fraternal bodies. Within the
Masonic brotherhood the members are bound to-
gether in the fraternal spirit, by the tie of "Broth-
erly Love, Relief and Truth." The one fundamental
tenet of this brotherhood is a belief in God. There-
fore, in a strictly religious sense, it is far more in-
clusive than any of the dogmatic brotherhoods that
are based upon the arbitrary teachings of theology.
For it is true that there are comparatively few of
the human family who do not believe in God —
within the meaning of a great Universal Intelli-
gence which is responsible for our planet earth, as
well as for all it contains, including the multifari-
19
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
ous forms of individual life, and the Life Elements
which they embody, throughout all the kingdoms
of Nature. It is perhaps true that, now and then,
there may be found a human being who will say
to his brothers and fellows that "there is no God";
but in the very largest percentage of these instances,
it will be found that the individual is not, in reality,
an atheist but only one who does not believe in the
anthropomorphic God — the god in human form
and with human attributes and appetites. So that,
on the basis of religion and philosophy there arc
very few who could not qualify for membership in
such a Brotherhood.
But there arc other restrictions and limitations,
of a purely arbitrary nature, that would close the
door of this form of brotherhood against a very
large number of humanity. In the first place, it
would exclude, in one class alone, at least one-half
of the human race, in that it bars its doors against
women. In addition to these, it closes its doors
against all "old men in their dotage" and "young
men in their nonage" — meaning young men who
are not yet "of age."
Hence it would appear that this character of
brotherhood does not yet contain all the elements
that are vital necessities in any brotherhood that
would include within its membership all that is
involved in the real "good of humanity" or in the
real "Brotherhood of Man."
There is yet another form of brotherhood which
is worth consideration in our search for the ideal
which shall meet all the terms and conditions of
"The Brotherhood of Man." In one sense this
might be embodied in the concept of a Brotherhood
20
RELIGIOUS AND FRATERNAL BROTHERHOODS
of Nations. Assuming that it were possible to bring
together into a brotherhood for the mutual good of
all, each and every nation upon the face of the
earth, this — in their purely national individuality
— would include all mankind upon the planet
earth.
Here, however, we have created a Brotherhood
of Nations, or States, and not of the individuals
who make up the humanity included within the
physical boundaries of those states or nations. In
their aggregate capacity such a brotherhood might
be said to include the entire human race, and hence,
to constitute a semi-, or quasi-"Brotherhood of
Man." But it must be clear that this is, not even
yet, the ideal "Brotherhood of Man."
It may be fruitful of good if we stop at this point
and consider briefly whether or not we are merely
chasing a will-o-the-wisp, a chimera, or seeking to
locate the end of the rainbow, in our efforts to de-
fine a real and literal "Brotherhood of Man." If
so, we are but wasting our energies upon the desert
air and spending our time in an unfruitful search
for the impossible. On the other hand, if there is
such a thing as we seek to define, we should be con-
soled by the thought that it is well worth our time,
attention and intelligent effort to seek it out, find
it and bring it to the definite knowledge and under-
standing of our fellows who have been concerned
with the same problem throughout the remotest
history of the human race.
In the event we shall find that there is, in reality,
no foundation upon which we may hope to estab-
lish the "Brotherhood of Man" for which humani-
ty has striven and prayed during all the generations
21
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
past, we shall have accomplished something of vast
importance, even so. It is always well to face the
facts, even though in so doing we may shatter fruit-
less dreams and find ourselves compelled to modify
our methods of procedure, or even face about and
follow an entirely antithetical course. In other
words, it is better to be right than to spend our lives
in fruitless efforts to attain the unattainable, even
though we may find profound consolation in the
indulgence of our fallacious dreams.
The discovery of our errors may set us in the
way of finding the truth.
22
CHAPTER IV
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS
1. SOCIALISM
There are other Brotherhoods, in addition to
those already mentioned, which it might be well
to analyze, elucidate and define.
Some of these are certain forms of brotherhood
which are generally, and very aptly, termed polit-
ical. For the purpose of gathering as much exact
information as may be possible concerning the
various and different lines along which humanity
has sought to develop the principle of Brother-
hood, it is necessary to consider one or more of the
political Brotherhoods with more care and much
greater detail than has heretofore been done.
We recognize the difficulties in this undertaking,
due chiefly to the utter lack of information in the
definitions given to the world by those who are
responsible for their formulation, and who should
have defined each word with the utmost exactness
and care. Even the men who have been looked
upon, by the world in general, as accredited author-
ities, disagree as widely as any others, when they
come to defining the terms employed.
First in the list of these political brotherhoods
let us consider the Brotherhood of Socialism.
Herein we find that the lack of uniformity, in both
the ideal expressed and the definitions of terms in
which those ideals are clothed, affords very little
23
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
basis on which to proceed without stimulating pro-
tests and objections from many directions, among
those who have made a sufficient study of the sub-
ject to regard themselves as duly qualified to speak
with authority. Indeed, it is not anticipated that we
shall be able to run the gantlet of criticism un-
scathed.
That the reader may have some suggestion as to
the difficulties surrounding the subject, however
honestly and earnestly we may endeavor to avoid
confusion or criticism, I quote a statement which
was made to me by a close personal friend :
"The specific reason why I finally withdrew
from Socialism and the entire Socialistic move-
ment, was that I could find no two acknowledged
socialistic authorities who were in entire accord on
any of the supposed fundamentals of Socialism. In
truth, the one man I finally came to regard as my
only definite authority, over all others, disagreed
with all of them, in virtually every important tenet
of Socialism. And finally, I often found him dis-
agreeing with himself quite as radically as with
any of his lesser authorities."
That I may not justly be charged with prejudice,
ignorance, nor with the formulation of my own
definition of Socialism, only to palm it of! upon
my readers as that of an "authority" — the follow-
ing definition of "Socialism" is given from Web-
ster's New International Dictionary:
Socialism: "A political and economic theory of
social reorganization, the essential feature of which
is governmental control of economic activities, to
the end that competition shall give way to coopera-
tion, and that the opportunities of life and the
24
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 1. SOCIALISM
rewards of labor shall be equitably apportioned.
"Often, however, socialism is used to denote
specifically the economic theories developed by
Ferdinand Lassalle and Karl Marx, advocating
the annullment of private ownership of capital and
land, and maintaining that all values are the cre-
ation and just due of labor."
To explain more simply and clearly the mean-
ings their authors attach to these, their own defi-
nitions of the terms employed to express their un-
derstanding of what the term Socialism means, let
us assume that the members of that party were
sufficiently numerous within our democracy to
elect a majority of the congressional representa-
tives, United States Senators, and the President.
They then would have complete control of the
law-making power, as well as the law-enforcing
power of the government. They then could pass
any law necessary to carry out their system of re-
organization of our government from its present
form into a socialistic form of government such as
the foregoing definitions contemplate.
They then could proceed to enact laws "annul-
ling all private ownership of capital and land";
which means the process of taking all capital and
land away from you and me and every other citizen
within the government, and giving it over to the
government itself. To understand even a small
fraction of what this would mean to us as indi-
viduals, it is necessary to know exactly what is
meant by capital and land.
There again I shall not run the risk of defining
the terms myself; well knowing that my own defi-
nitions would not meet the approval of a very
25
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
large percentage of those who call themselves
Socialists. On the other hand, I shall use the defini-
tions already formulated by the same distinguished
authority—none other than the self-same diction-
ary from which I have quoted the definition of
Socialism. By this method I shall hope to make it
rather difficult for my critics to charge me with
the "crime of ignorance" because of inexcusable
want of knowledge as to the fundamental tenets
of Socialism. I would have them know in advance
against whom the shafts of their criticism arc lev-
elled before they release them.
Capital: "Economics: A stock of accumulated
wealth; specif. : (a) the amount of property owned
by an individual or corporation at a specific time,
as distinct from the income received during a given
period, (b) the amount of such property which is
used for business purposes, (c) an aggregation of
(economic) goods used to promote the production
of other goods, instead of being valuable solely for
purposes of immediate enjoyment, (d) the total
amount of such goods in continuous existence."
"Sense (a) is the one in which the word is ordin-
arily used by accountants; for example, in con-
trasting a capital account with an income account.
Sense (b) corresponds to the usage of Adam Smith
who specifically defines capital 'as that part of a
man's stock which he expects to afford him reve-
nue.' Sense (c) is the meaning employed by the
majority of later economists. Sense (d) is the mean-
ing preferred by J. B. Clark when he contrasts
pure, or permanent, capital with the perishable
'capital goods' composing it. Capital is divided into
fixed capital, which is invested for recurrent use in
26
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 1. SOCIALISM
a particular manner, and circulating capital, which
is consumed in production but is constantly re-
covered."
In the very first expression, under Economics,
the term is defined generally as
—"A stock of ac-
cumulated wealth." To understand the exact sense
in which the term wealth is employed, it is defined :
"(a) In the private sense, all property which
has a money value, (b) In the public sense, all
objects, esp. material objects, which have economic
utility, (c) Specif., called personal wealth. Those
energies, faculties and habits directly contributing
to make people industrially efficient."
Under these definitions, it must be clear that
capital, as the word is used by modern socialists,
has reference to virtually everything an individual
possesses—except, perhaps, the clothes he happens
to wear at the time.
Land: "All those elements in the wealth of a
nation which are supposed to be furnished by na-
ture; as distinct from those improvements which
owe their value to the labor and organizing power
of land."
"There are other utilities (than those creatable
by man) over the supply of which man has no con-
trol ; they are given as fixed quantity by nature and
have therefore no supply price. The term land'
has been extended by economists so as to include
the permanent sources of these utilities; whether
they are found in land, as the term is commonly
used, or in seas and rivers, in sunshine and rain, in
winds and waterfalls." Alfred Marshall.
These definitions have been given, in this con-
nection, so that the reader may not find it necessary
27
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
to read through the large number of text books
on Socialism to hunt out their meaning. With these
as the basis upon which to establish an understand-
ing of Socialism, and determine what changes
would be necessary to reorganize this government
of ours into a socialistic institution, the following
conclusions would seem both logical and inevit-
able:
1. Under such a government, a man may own a
house, a barn, a pigpen, a chicken coop, a rabbit
hutch—but not the land on which these sit.
2. He may own such money only as he earns bv
his personal labor. Tf a carpenter, he may build
houses, barns, etc., for his neighbors, and own the
money he receives for the bare labor he puts into
them; but not from any profits he might otherwise
derive from furnishine the lumber and other ma-
terials necessary for their construction. In other
words, if he furnishes the materials for the build-
ings he erects, he must do so at actual cost.
3. He may invest a sufficient amount of moncv
in groceries to set him up in the grocery business:
but once he has done this, the eroceries become his
capital ; from the sale of which he may obtain
enough monev to replenish his stock, from time to
time, with just enough profits to meet his actual
living expenses.
Tf he ever desires to discontinue the erocerv
business, it is not quite clear iust how he would
proceed, without forfeiting to the covcrnment such
groceries as he had at the time he closed out his
business: because his stock is his capital—and the
fundamental tenet of Socialism is the annulment
28
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS— 1. SOCIALISM
of capital and giving it over to the control of the
government along with the land.
4. If he were a physician he could keep enough
of his earnings to cover the actual cost of his own
living and that of his family, as well as all others
who may be dependent upon him; but he could
not charge $500, or $1000, for a surgical operation
and put the money in a bank, because it then be-
comes capital and belongs to the government.
5. If he were a plumber, he might charge for
his labor alone. But if he furnished the materials
necessary to complete a given job, he could charge
only the cost price of the various articles of mer-
chandise necessary to that end. But what if his
business did not afford him sufficient compensation
in actual labor to cover the cost of a living for him-
self and his family and all those dependent upon
him? What will he do? How can he meet the defi-
cit? It does not seem that this particular brand of
Socialism, carried out to its legitimate and logical
conclusion, could possibly provide for this par-
ticular contingency. Nor does it seem that it can
meet many other equally logical conclusions that
must arise under such a system—carried out to its
ultimate and logical conclusion.
Furthermore, it is stated, without equivocation
or mental reservation, by the authorities quoted,
that the ultimate aim and legitimate end of Social-
ism is that, through the annulment of private own-
ership (personal property) and governmental con-
trol of all economic activities, we shall ultimately
bring about the Utopian condition where compe-
tition shall give way to cooperation, and the oppor-
29
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
tunitics of life and the rewards of labor shall be
equitably apportioned.
In other words, here is a purely theoretical
Brotherhood that bases its right to intelligent con-
sideration upon its promise to accomplish that
which neither God nor Nature has ever yet suc-
ceeded in bringing to pass. By this is meant the
elimination of competition, or the establishment of
universal cooperation.
In truth, wherever we turn our attention, in a
critical and intelligent observation and estimation
of the methods by which God, or Nature, carries
forward the activities and processes of the planet
earth on which we live, or even those of the greater
universe, so far as we can follow them—from the
lowest round of the mineral kingdom through all
the rounds of the vegetable kingdom, upward and
onward even to the highest round of the animal
kingdom, and to man himself — we find that
Competition seems to be quite as universal as
Cooperation.
30
CHAPTER V
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION
That we may verify the great, fundamental fact
of Nature—that Competition seems to be quite as
universal as Cooperation—go with me down to the
very depths of the mineral kingdom, then follow
up through the higher kingdoms to that of Man
himself.
To the physical senses the solid crystallized rock
seems to be one of the established conditions within
the mineral kingdom of Nature. If we trace the
purely physical and chemical mutations occurring
within it, we find that through the grinding power
of glaciers, the disintegrating effects of heat and
cold, the burning results of the sun's rays and the
crumbling effects of the winds and rains, the larg-
est and the hardest granite boulder, in due time
will crumble into the individual particles of which
it was originally composed.
These are the "hostile forces" against which the
solid rock had to contend in order to maintain its
existence as such. Do we find anything here but
competition of the elements of Nature with the
established conditions within the stone? So far as
the stone is concerned, certainly there is nothing
observable that would strongly suggest the kindly
influence of cooperation.
Now take the same boulder and consider its life
in relation to the next higher kingdom of Nature,
31
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
the vegetable. In due time, through the vitalizing
influence of the same elements, Nature forms a
covering of moss upon the outer surface of the
stone. Immediately the moss begins to grow and in
so doing it saps the vitality of the stone and materi-
ally aids the glacier, the heat and the cold of the
outer world, the wind and the rain, the frost and
the dry heat of the sun, in the disintegrating pro-
cess. Thus we observe that the stone is also in direct
competition with the vegetable kingdom which
lives off its inner life element. Hence, we find that
the mineral kingdom is not only in competition
with the elements both within and surrounding it,
but also must compete with the vegetable world
which lives directly upon it.
Let us go forward to the very highest form of
life, where also we find that man himself becomes
a most powerful contributing factor in the disinte-
grating process that is constantly destroying the
stone.
Take a brief survey of some of our beautiful
mountains—that were. Observe how man, with his
steam shovels, trucks and tractors, is tearing and
wearing the solid granite into dust and to some
extent denuding the mountains of much that makes
them beautiful. Is this done through man's cooper-
ation with the individual rocks, or even with the
mineral kingdom as a whole? No. Instead, here
again we find a powerful competitive agent in man
himself. Nowhere, however, have we discovered
that cooperation has had any place, so far, in Na-
ture's progressive plan of action, nor in the method
and process whereby she accomplishes her results.
32
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION
Cooperation, nevertheless, does have a place and a
most important one, when properly understood.
Now let us examine the vegetable kingdom, that
we may discover the method which God, or Na-
ture, employs in the activities of this next higher
kingdom.
Here is a forest of pine trees that has grown
from infancy to stately majesty. The individual
trees all developed out of the same general condi-
tions. They drew their life and sustenance from
the same soil, the same sunlight, the same water
and the same air. In the beginning they did not
interfere with one another, but as they grew larger
they became more and more crowded for space,
until the soil did not contain sufficient nourishment
to sustain the further growth of all the individual
trees. What followed? The more rugged trees ab-
sorbed more than their equal share of nourishment
and, to do this, had to take it away from the others.
By degrees the less rugged trees began to suffer and
fall behind in point of vital energy and growth.
These weaker ones finally began to languish and die
until at last they withered and fell to the ground.
They had lost out in the competitive struggle with
their stronger and more vigorous brothers.
This situation fairly represents what Darwin
defined as — "The struggle for existence in the
midst of a hostile environment"—so far as the in-
dividual tree is concerned. If the competition of
its brothers became too great for any individual
tree, it died, and thus made room for its competi-
tors to go on growing, as some of the sequoia, or
"Big Trees," of California have done for 4000 to
5000 years.
33
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
Here we see also the evidences of cooperation
running side by side with competition. But for the
cooperation of the mineral kingdom in furnishing
nourishment, light, heat, water and air, even the
most rugged of all the trees could not have sur-
vived to maturity, nor even at all. They could not
have come into being to make the struggle for ex-
istence but for these conditions.
Let us now go down into the realm of the animal
kingdom where the fishes live, into the depths of
old ocean. Here is a realm of individual life which
should give a fair and definite reflex of the method
and process by which God or Nature carries on
the activities which guide the destinies of indi-
vidual intelligence; for here each individual,
whether large or small, low or high, weak or pow-
erful, intelligently keen or dull, finds itself in
direct competition with those more powerful, more
individually capable, and of superior intelligence.
The small, the weak, the slow and the primitive
all must run the gantlet of their superior fellows
—
only to be eaten and destroyed in the end. The
tiniest minnow is pursued by virtually all other
fishes large enough to swallow it; and if it succeeds
in growing up to normal fishhood of its kind, it is
because it is wise enough, or clever enough, or
swift enough—or all these combined—to compete
for its own life among them. Tf it fails, it is swal-
lowed by the first larger fish that is fast enough and
clever enough to compete with it in the race for
its individual life. But the fish that catches it is,
at the same time, running from some still larger
fish, and this, in turn, from one that is after it.
Thus it is that within the realm of the fishes the
34
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION
large fish eat the smaller ones, those larger eat
them; and throughout the entire world in which
they live this contest goes on, so that in this par-
ticular realm of individual life, the very funda-
mental principle seems to depend as much upon
competition as it does on cooperation.
Take it now from the viewpoint of man's rela-
tion to the fishes, and here we find that man himself
becomes one of the most destructive agents with
which the fishes must contend. Indeed, the fishes
constitute one of the prolific sources of the food
supply of all mankind.
Make the journey throughout each and every
department of individual life and you will find that
the same process goes on, in varying degrees;
everywhere we find that the individual life is
always in competition with its fellows and with
all the kingdoms of Nature seemingly pitted
against it.
These are some of the facts of Nature which
impelled Darwin to promulgate the doctrine that
individual life is "a struggle for existence in the
midst of a hostile environment". And likewise that,
in this struggle, "only the fittest survive".
Whether Darwin was correct in his conclusions
or not, he furnished an abundance of evidence in
the facts of Nature he compiled, to justify us in
hesitating to accept—without vastly more positive
evidence than we have been able to accumulate
from history throughout the known life of human-
ity upon the earth—the idea that a government,
even among the most highly developed and intelli-
gently advanced human beings, entirely free from
the element of competition, is a scientific possi-
35
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
bility. In truth, if we confine ourselves to the actual
known facts of Nature, and the demonstrated facts
of science, we should be justified in holding that
competition and cooperation are concomitant fac-
tors in the great scheme of Nature, both animate
and inanimate.
The Competitive Principle and the Cooperative
Principle in Nature as they are exemplified within
the three lower kingdoms of Nature are the con-
comitant factors employed in the "evolution of
Individualized Intelligence". Within these lower
kingdoms the Competitive Principle may be de-
structive to individual life, though Nature never
loses sight of the ultimate goal of Individual
Evolution upon the higher kingdom of man.
Within the human kingdom, where the indi-
vidual becomes morally accountable and personally
responsible, the two principles are still concom-
mitant factors in the evolutionary process; but
here the Competitive Principle becomes doubly
destructive when wrongfully employed for purely
selfish purposes—in that it destroys the individual,
who abuses it, as well as the individual or indi-
viduals, against whom it is employed. In this
kingdom the Cooperative Principle is construc-
tive, and when rightly used by the individual
becomes doubly powerful in its evolutionary im-
pulse to the individual, in that it unites the impulse
of the Individual to that of Nature toward the
same evolutionary goal of Self-Completion on the
part of the individual, and Nature's reward there-
for which is Individual Completion and Perfect
Happiness.
Socialists tell us that the present "measure of
36
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION
values" (our current monetary system) is responsi-
ble for many of the present ills and inequalities of
economic conditions. To remedy this they propose
to substitute labor as the measure of values. This
means that a day's labor will be made the unit of
value, instead of our present paper money and
metal coins.
In just what particular this simple substitution
alone would change, or improve present condi-
tions, doth not yet appear. At present our govern-
ment owns a certain number of ounces, pounds or
tons of gold bullion, stored away in its depositories.
For the accommodation of the people and to re-
lieve them of the necessity of carrying around
enough of the heavy gold to meet the demands
of their daily business, the government issues Fed-
eral Reserve Bank certificates—issued in the form
of "paper money"— a substitution for the actual
gold and gold coin itself.
These various forms of currency can be readily
used as a medium of exchange and, together with
personal checks, bank drafts and other forms of
"paper money obligations," the entire business of
the people of our government is carried on with
smoothness and despatch. It is an item worth re-
membering, that over ninety percent of the entire
business of our country is transacted by paper
money, checks, drafts and certificates of credit in
various forms, without disturbing a single ounce
of the gold bullion in the United States Deposi-
tories.
Let us suppose that labor were substituted for
our present medium of exchange, it would become
necessary to provide a method of issuing certificates
37
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
for each and every day's work done by every indi-
vidual in the United States. These labor certificates
would then take the place of the present silver
certificates, coins and Federal Reserve Bank notes
as a medium of exchange; the mere checking up
of the number of day's labor actually performed,
and the issuance of certificates to cover them each
twenty-four hours — to say nothing of providing
fractional currency to take the place of the present
penny, nickel, dime, quarter and half dollar —
involve a method of registering and verifying the
number of days of actual labor performed in each
and every little community, and the issuance of
certificates therefor. And this method must be such
as to guard against dishonest reports of labor actu-
ally done, as well as of fraud in the issuance of
certificates.
Thus far, no socialist has ever explained to my
satisfaction how all this is to be accomplished in
such manner as to guarantee honesty and reliability
in the volume of labor money thus issued.
Assuming that such a system might be possible,
in what way is an arbitrary labor standard of
values and medium of exchange, an improvement
over our present arbitrary standard of values and
medium of exchange? Our present monetary sys-
tem may need improvement, but the proposed
labor certificates does not seem to be the answer.
There are many other difficulties to be met in
substituting a labor standard of value and a labor
medium of exchange for our present system, all
of which seem to spell failure in advance—if it
should end with the simple substitution.
Furthermore, this suggestion seems to be fully
38
COMPETITION AND COOPERATION
verified and confirmed by every attempt thus far
made. Until history can point to one unqualified
success, over a period of years, on a national scale,
the burden of proof is still on Socialism, and not
on its opponents. Until it succeeds in substituting
Cooperation for Competition, with government
control of all capital and the annulment of private
ownership of capital and land, I seriously doubt
it will ever command the approval or support of
the people of the United States.
39
CHAPTER VI
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS
2. ANARCHISM
Anarchism is a form of brotherhood, based on
the "political and social theory that all government
is an evil".
"In its broadest form it demands absolute eman-
cipation from all law, moral as well as economic
and political, outside the individual."
u
In its more practical form, Anarchism is a
variety of communalism, having for its ideal the
formation of small autonomous communities the
members of which respect one another's individual
independence while they unite to resist outside
aggression."
"At its best, it stands for a society made orderly
by good manners rather than by law, in which each
person is supposed to produce according to his
power and receive according to his needs."
"At its worst, it stands for a terroristic resistance
of all present government and social order."
From these various definitions, it seems evident
that there are many different concepts of the term
Anarchism. It would not be fair to judge it
u
at its
best" by what it has proven to be "at its worst".
In any view of it, there can be no doubt that it
is founded upon the general concept that "all gov-
ernment is an evil", and complete "emancipation
from all law" is the ideal state of society.
It would be a matter of intense interest to apply
40
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 2. ANARCHISM
the principle of logic to these various concepts,
both social and economic, as well as individual and
political, and see where it would lead us.
From the viewpoint of a Brotherhood, it does
not seem to offer anything but chaos. This is
because the mind cannot conceive of any society,
in which each individual does whatever he pleases,
without his doing many things that must inevitably
clash and conflict with the things his neighbors
desire to do.
An illustration of how these individual interests
clash, and of what these clashes lead to, may be
found in the history of the Western United States
during the time when men recognized no legal
restraints nor obligations:
The public domain was open to stock raisers.
One man elected to raise cattle, and his neighbor
elected to raise sheep. But wherever the sheep
grazed they cut the grass so short that little was left
for the cattle to feed upon.
A sheep raiser and a cattle raiser both selected
the same territory in which to feed their stock.
When they turned both sheep and cattle on to the
same grazing land the sheep soon ate the grass
so short that the cattle were left without sufficient
food. The first result was that the cattle grew thin
while the sheep grew fat. These brothers did not
happen to possess the "good manners" which an-
archists are supposed to depend upon to keep out
of trouble and preserve perfect order in the midst
of all their conflicting interests.
On the other hand, the cattle raiser who was
getting decidedly the worst of the deal, went to the
sheep raiser and expostulated with him. The sheep
41
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
raiser only laughed at him and replied: "This is
a free country and this grazing is as much mine
as yours." But the cattle raiser said: "Look at my
cattle. They are getting thinner every day and
slowly starving. Soon they will begin to die if you
permit your sheep to graze over all the land, and
I shall be ruined." The sheep raiser replied
:
''What has that to do with me? I am a sheep raiser,
and I am doing fine. I am not raising cattle, and I
have no interest in preventing your cattle from
starving. That is your affair. I have as much right
to graze my sheep on the public domain as you
have your cattle, and that is just what I'm doing."
You already know the outcome. The history of
the West is a history of human strife with the
sacrifice of human life on almost every section of
land throughout the Western country. The cattle
raiser finally served notice on the sheep raiser that
if he did not relinquish part of the land he would
kill him on sight. They finally met in a duel to the
death. They shot it out and one of them was killed.
This is exactly what occurred, not once but
thousands of times, during the sheep and cattle
wars of the past, in this country, when there was
no law that could be enforced throughout the west-
ern stock lands, because there were not sufficient
government peace officers to patrol the territory
and prevent these destructive wars.
Here was a practical illustration of the actual
working of the principle at the basis of Anarchism.
It proves that men do not possess the "good man-
ners" on which Anarchism depends as the only
means of preventing "disorders" in society. It
proves that whenever the interests and desires of
42
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 2. ANARCHISM
men conflict, trouble, sorrow, destruction and death
reign supreme
—
until the majesty of the law comes
and establishes its supremacy. Only then do men
cease their hostile attitudes and seek to settle their
conflicting interests by peaceful means. And it is
only when the law is accompanied by the power to
enforce it that men learn to respect it and acknowl-
edge its benefits.
In our present state of development law is about
the only influence in society that is strong enough
and great enough to command the respect of man-
kind. Such "good manners" as mankind possesses
today are not enough to preserve the peace alone
for one hour without the restraining power of the
law.
If today the peaceful influence of the law were
removed from society, it would not be long until
the destructive impulses and tendencies of human
nature would be openly flaunted on every hand;
and "good manners" would be a thing of the past.
From which it would seem that any social insti-
tution founded upon the "emancipation of its
individual members from all law" as the ideal
social state, has opened the flood gate of evil and
destruction by which it will work its destruction
inevitably and speedily.
Anarchism, in every conceivable form, and
under every concept that has ever been defined, has
come down to us through every human era.
Wherever it has been definitely inaugurated, as
the established social state, only social and political
chaos has resulted. This is because the elements
necessary to perpetuate a constructive Brotherhood
have been omitted.
43
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
Hence, does it not seem that we are warranted
in concluding that Anarchism does not in any of
its varied forms, constitute the constructive basis
necessary to "The Brotherhood of Man"? At least
not in the present state of human development, nor
does it seem possible until several millenniums
have come and gone and humanity has attained to
a much more exalted level of "good manners."
44
CHAPTER VII
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS
3. COMMUNISM
This brings us to a consideration of Communism
as a possible brotherhood such as "The Brother-
hood of Man."
That we may not be guilty of taking anything for
granted in this consideration of the subject, it is
necessary that we define the term Communism at
the outset, in the exact terms used by those who
stand sponsor for the Communistic concept and
social ideal. To that end note the following defini-
tions :
1. "A system of social organization in which
goods are held in common."
2. "The opposite of the system of private prop-
erty."
3. "A system of social organization where large
powers are given to small political units, or com-
munes."
4. "Any theory or system of social organization
involving the common ownership of the agents of
production, and some approach to equality in the
distribution of the products of industry."
5. "Unformulated Socialism."
The popular usage of the word Communism
conforms to the third of these definitions. The sci-
entific usage sometimes conforms to the first alone,
and sometimes alternates between the first and
45
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
second. The former was the traditional English
practice. The latter is followed by writers influ-
enced bv the works of the French authorities, who
as a rule use the term indiscriminately in the two
meanings.
Having been a student of the subject for many
years, and having made a critical study of virtually
all the leading writers of both Europe and America
upon the subject, T believe T am within the facts
when T say that "the holding of goods in common"
might justly be termed the fundamental tenet of
Communism. While other considerations necessar-
ily enter into the problem, they cluster about this
central concept of ownership in common.
This Brotherhood, as well as that of Socialism,
confines itself to the distinctly materialistic aspects
of life. Tt does not extend its efforts and activities to
the educational, the mental, the moral, the spiritual
nor the scientific departments of Nature—except
in the very limited sense in which these may be
involved in the purely physical aspects of common
ownership of material possessions.
Tt is just here that its dominant limitations would
seem to disqualify Communism as a real "Brother-
hood of Man".
As in Socialism, one of its efforts is to reorganize
existing government upon such a basis that "com-
petition shall give way to cooperation". Tn plain
terms, this means to establish a government solely
upon the basis of cooperation, and entirely to
eliminate all competition. To this end all members
are expected to become producers, in whatsoever
departments of human endeavor they elect to en-
gage; and whatsoever they produce they contribute
46
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 3. COMMUNISM
to the community holdings, and they receive there-
from whatever they need.
The very terms thus employed to define the con-
tributions to, and the disbursements from, the
community assets, or holdings, raise some of the
problems to be met and solved. For instance, is
each individual member to be judge of how much
and what he shall produce? If he is, what incentive
does this system provide which will impel or
inspire him to produce the full measure of his
productive capacity? Does it not, on the other
hand, rather hold out to him a strong inducement
to put forth the least productive energy necessary
to make him a sharer in the community assets?
If some one or more of the community outside
himself shall be charged with this responsibility,
how will they proceed to impel or inspire each
member to exercise the full measure of his pro-
ductive energy? How shall they be able to offset
the natural tendency of human nature to impel each
member to exaggerate his "needs" in proportion to
his voluntary contribution to the community fund?
Again, who shall determine what are the "needs"
of any individual member? Shall each individual
be the final judge of his own "needs"? In other
words, shall each individual within the community
be the sole arbiter as to what percent of his pro-
ductive capacity he will contribute to the com-
munity holdings, and how much he shall draw
therefrom to cover his own "needs"? If not, then
just how will these matters of contribution and
consumption, or of income and outgo, be deter-
mined so that exact equity shall be guaranteed?
Or, shall the community interests be limited to
47
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
the necessities of life such as food, clothing, shelter
and a place to sleep? If so, by what method shall
these be apportioned? And if the apportionment
is not equitable and just, what assurance is there
that the individual members are going to be satis-
fied and contented under such a system?
In other words, has any advocate of Communism
developed an automatic, or self-determining sys-
tem, or method, by which to determine for each
member of such a community the exact value of his
contributions to the community holdings, and the
exact amount and value of his individual needs?
Inasmuch as the earning capacity of one man
may be vastly more or vastly less than that of his
fellow member, and the value of his needs mny be
likewise more or less than others of his fellows, an
equitable adjustment of contributions and needs
among the individual members of such a commu-
nity would seem to be one of the impossibilities
to be solved before such a community can guaran-
tee to its members either justice, or equitw or
satisfaction, or contentment, or any adequate in-
spiration to employ the full measure of their pro-
ductive energies and personal efforts.
Until Communism shall discover some process
that will reduce the needs of each and everv one of
its members to one and the same standard in
amount, and raise the productivity of each and
every member to identically the same standard, it
will find itself with a vital problem unsolved.
Tf it ever should succeed in its solution, that very
fact will raise another equally vital problem which
must be met and solved. Tt arises out of the follow-
ing facts of Nature:
48
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 3. COMMUNISM
1. In point of productivity (earning capacity)
if the community takes the full earnings of the man
of superior capacity and offers him nothing in re-
turn for himself as a reward for the surplus he
produces, what inducement has the community to
offer him that will be sufficient to impel him to go
on producing more than his fellow member whose
earning capacity is only one-fourth as great?
2. If the superior producer receives from the
common fund only the same to cover his needs that
is apportioned to the most inferior producer, does
Communism hold this to be equity?
3. What effect is that likely to have upon the
superior producer?
4. When he sees himself producing four times
as much as a fellow member, but at the same time
observes that his fellow (who produces one-fourth
as much as he) receives from the common fund
as much as he does, is he not going to feel that he
is being placed upon a level with the most incon-
sequential producer of the entire community?
5. How long does it seem to you the superior
producer is going to be satisfied with this quality
of equitv? Is he not going to raise the question
:
"Since I receive only the same amount from the
eommunitv holdings as the least contributor there-
to, why should I go on contributing four times
as much as he? Why not give one-fourth of my pro-
ductive energy and time to the community, and
take the other three-fourths for myself—playine
eolf, or pitching horseshoes, or playing the violin?
I will still be giving as much to the community
fund as the most inferior producer, and will not
be doing him an injustice."
49
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
6. What would be the effect upon the small pro-
ducer? Would he not be inclined to say: "Inas-
much as the community allows me just as much to
cover my 'needs' as it allows to the man who con-
tributes the largest amount to the community hold-
ings, it is evident that the community holds me
to be just as important as he. T am just as good as
he, even if he can and does produce four times as
much as T do for the community. I consider myself
most lucky, for T am able to make just as prosper-
ous a showing as he. My wife can have anything
his wife can have. She can wear just as good clothes
and go in just as good society as his wife. But T
can't help wondering what he thinks about it."
7. To sum it up in a single question : "Docs not
any system which eliminates all competition, at the
same time eliminate one of the basic inspirations
which makes any government prosperous and pro-
gressive?"
8. Is it not equally true that it is only the abso-
lute assurance that he shall receive full value for
all his earnings that inspires the individual to
employ all his time and productive energies? Ts it
not just this, that enables him to "get ahead" in the
marathon of life?
9. Let us look at the other side of this problem :
Ts it not true that any system of government that
eliminates all competition and substitutes therefor
cooperation, thereby kills the inspiration to pro-
ductive activity, invites inactivity and stagnation,
and reverses the wheels of progress?
Those who base their communistic ideas of gov-
ernment upon the concept that Nature's laws arc
all cooperative, and nowhere sanction competi-
50
POLITICAL BROTHERHOODS — 3. COMMUNISM
lion, have only to study the illustrations set forth
under the head of Competition, to realize a com-
plete disillusionment upon that subject. They will
be surprised to find that progress, in all the king-
doms of Nature, is inseparable from competition;
that wherever competition is eliminated, or stifled,
stagnation, retrogression, deterioration and devolu-
tion follow in rapid succession, and with as much
certainty and precision as the seasons follow in
their order.
This, however, must not be construed to mean
that Nature does not sanction nor provide for co-
operation as well as competition. It means only that
both competition and cooperation are vital con-
comitants in Nature's evolutionary process. It
means that both these factors are necessary to com-
plete Nature's plan and method of procedure. And
this finally means that any social or economic plan
or method of procedure which wholly eliminates
either competition or cooperation is in direct con-
travention of Nature's laws. Such a system cannot
endure because it omits one of the vital ele-
ments necessary to the perpetuity and continuity of
Nature's established plan of action and method
of procedure.
Does it appeal to your intelligence and to your
sense of logic that any Brotherhood such as Com-
munism, with the element of competition entirely
eliminated could possibly be "The Brotherhood of
Man" which has been sought throughout the ages
and down to the present time?
51
CHAPTER VIII
THE DEFINITION OF THE GREAT SCHOOL
This brings mc to the definition which the Great
School of Natural Science has formulated to ex-
press its own concept of what it means by "The
Brotherhood of Man."
By analysis and comparison we shall then be in
position to determine wherein, if at all, it differs
from the various concepts already defined. Here
is the definition:
The Brotherhood of Man: "The exemplification
of Moral Accountability in the mutual discharge
of Personal Responsibility among Mankind/'
The purpose is to indicate a Brotherhood of Man
that has come into mutual association for the ex-
press purpose of exemplifying something very
definite and specific. That is, to live their lives in
such manner that each individual shall seek to
prove something of the most vital importance to
the life and well-being of the Brotherhood of
which they are all members. This means that each
individual member shall endeavor to accomplish
something which every other member shall recog-
nize to be of value to him and to all his fellows.
It is therefore something which all his fellow
members will approve. Hence, it is something that
is for the general good of the Brotherhood, as such.
52
THE DEFINITION OF THE GREAT SCHOOL
In other words, it is something that will make for
the perpetuity and continuity of the life and devel-
opment of the Brotherhood itself.
What is this vital thing which each individual
member seeks to exemplify that will be of benefit
to each individual member, as well as of construc-
tive value to the Brotherhood, as such?
Moral Accountability. This means that there is
a Moral Order of the Universe; that Morality is
as much a Law of Nature as Gravity, or Polarity,
or Attraction. It is, therefore, a matter that falls
as definitely within the limitations of exact science
as are the movements of the heavenly bodies.
In this connection let me call attention to the
fact that, according to the findings of Natural
Science
—
"Morality is the established harmonic
relation 'which man, as an individual intelligence,
sustains to the constructive principle of Nature".
It is an established relation; hence, it is, there-
forej, a fixed and determined relation. But, whatso-
ever becomes a fixed and determined thing in
Nature, is a scientific fact. Therefore, Morality
is a scientific fact, as truly as is the fact that the
earth revolves upon its own axis. These are both
facts of Nature, and are clearly within the limita-
tions of exact science.
Moreover, the relation is not only established by
Nature, and therefore scientific, but it is a har-
monic relation. This means that it is constructive
and in harmony with the Constructive Principle of
Nature.
We have learned also that Morality is not only a
matter of exact science, but has definite and specific
reference to the relation which man—as an indi-
S3
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
vidua! intelligence—sustains to the Constructive
Principle of Nature.
Our definition of "The Brotherhood of Alan"
includes the "Exemplification of Moral Accounta-
bility." What is Moral Accountability?
It is man's recognition of the scientific fact that
the relation he sustains to his fellows, and to the
Constructive Principle of Nature, is founded upon
a Moral Order of the Universe. This means that
Nature, or God, has established a Moral Order on
the basis of exact science and that man recognizes
the fact of that Moral Order, and holds himself
bound by it, and accountable to its requirements.
And he proceeds to live his life in such manner
that he shall exemplify his Moral Accountability
under the Law.
In conformity with the terms of the definition of
the "Brotherhood of Man," the individual man
must exemplify his own moral accountability in a
certain definite way (along with each and all of
his fellows), namely, "in the mutual discharge of
Personal Responsibility among Mankind."
Here, however, another profound problem must
be faced which but few individuals of the present
day and age grasp in all its scientific aspects and
significance. Reference is made to the scientific
meaning of the term "Personal Responsibility."
For the definition says that the individual Brother
must so live his life that he shall make it an "exem-
plification of Moral Accountability in the mutual
discharge of Personal Responsibility among Man-
kind."
Before it is possible for him, however, to do this
effectually, it is necessary that he first know the
54
THE DEFINITION OF THE GREAT SCHOOL
exact scientific meaning of the significant term
—
"Personal Responsibility."
Since it has reference to a law which applies to
and governs all mankind, it must be entirely clear
that it has reference to each and every Individual
who becomes a member of the "Brotherhood of
Man." None is omitted.
The very fact that the term "Personal" is used,
establishes the fact that the kind of "Responsibil-
ity" referred to is that which applies to each person.
This means that every person who is a member of
the "Brotherhood of Man" is necessarily bound by
the character and quality of Responsibility that
applies to all members.
Please note the important fact that the word
"degree" is omitted. It has not been said that every
member of the Brotherhood is bound by the degree
of Responsibility that applies to all members. Make
special notation of this omission, for the reason
that it marks a point of the most vital importance
to the scientific exactness of the analysis and final
summary. This point will be elucidated later.
We come now to the term "Responsibility
"
What does it mean, as Natural Science uses the
expression?
It will be evident to every individual who is at
all familiar with the general concept of the term,
especially to those who are accustomed to using the
term as an integral part of their own individual
and distinct vocabulary, that it involves an Obliga-
tion on the part of the individual — and this means
to each and every individual of the human family
— to do or not to do the things designated or in-
cluded in the obligation itself.
55
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
Another point of vital importance is in the fact
that an Obligation, to be binding upon those for
whom it is intended, must be a definitely fixed obli-
gation. Otherwise it is fatally lacking in stability
and certainty, and falls below the requirements of
exact science. We would not hold it binding nor
worthy of our recognition if it were subject to
modification or change at the whim of the indi-
vidual to whom it applies. It is therefore clear that
it must contain the element of fixity in order that
it may reach the dignity of an Obligation, or a
Responsibility.
This fact presents the problem of who shall fix
such an Obligation upon us. It must be evident to
every individual capable of reasoning upon the
problem at all, that authority is the element neces-
sary to fix and make binding an Obligation upon
the members of such an organization as the "Broth-
erhood of Man."
This means adequate, positive and unquestion-
able authority. In this case there arc no qualifica-
tions. The authority must be absolute. It must be of
such quality, dignity and power that no man shall
have the temerity to question it.
But where, with reference to the individual man
himself, shall we identify a source of authority that
is adequate to sustain and enforce its decrees?
Could You acknowledge your fellow man—even
the wisest of them—as an authority of sufficient
wisdom to command your absolute obedience to
any decree he might impose upon you, regardless
of its appeal to your intelligence or your sense of
right? As the Scotchman would say: "I ha'c me
doots."
56
THE DEFINITION OF THE GREAT SCHOOL
We see the verification of this weakness of
human nature in the fact that our fellows—many
of them of high intelligence, wide knowledge and
great wisdom—have formulated and passed the
man-made laws that constitute the body of our
statutory laws. The very purpose of these laws is
to fix upon men and women who make up the vast
body of human society certain obligations. One of
these laws fixes upon us the obligation that we shall
not steal the things that belong to our neighbors.
The great aggregate individual which we call "the
state of California" or Florida, or Indiana, sanc-
tions this law against theft to give it authority.
But does that fact prevent the individual members
of society from violating the obligation imposed
by the statutes? Even though the law provides
severe penalties for its violation, men continue to
steal from each other, the world over. They refuse
to recognize the authority of man-made laws, and
the men who are charged with the duty to enforce
them do not succeed.
The men and women who violate the state laws
do so because they know that many of their fellows
do the same thing and often succeed in evading and
avoiding the penalty which the men who made the
laws prescribed. This fact proves to them that the
authority back of these laws is not adequate nor con-
vincing. It is possible to evade or avoid their
penalties, if one is clever enough; and those who
are clever enough, or who think they are, take the
chance and go on disregarding the laws and their
penalties. In effect, these law-breakers say to the
law-makers—"Catch me if you can"—and in many
instances the individual is never caught, and the
57
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
penalty prescribed by law is never enforced. This
proves the penalty is not sufficiently fixed to be ab-
solutely unavoidable. This is because the authority
back of the law is not sufficient to command the
respect of society.
Is there any other authority that is more capable
of enforcing its laws than man himself? Yes, there
is one of which we know something. That is God,
or Nature. (We are using these terms synony-
mously.) We know that the Great Universal In-
telligence whose laws govern the movements of the
planets, including our earth, is the Intelligence
back of all the activities and decrees of Nature.
We will, therefore, not be misunderstood when we
use the term Nature to express the authority that
is more powerful than man. For we know that man
is a product of Nature and that her laws and de-
crees apply to him, as well as to every department
of his individual being.
We have come to realize, from our own indi-
vidual experiences, that there is such a thing as
"Nature's Laws". We know also that Nature's
Laws are absolute and apply to all men. She is no
respecter of persons. She makes no exceptions. Her
penalties are just as absolute and just as inviolable
as her rewards are certain and dependable.
Moreover, our personal experiences have proven
to us the fact that the penalties she fixes for the
violation of her laws and decrees are inviolable.
They cannot be evaded nor avoided. They arc self-
acting and automatic. However strenuously man
may endeavor to do so, he cannot evade nor avoid
even the least of her penalties, whenever he vio-
lates one of her laws. This is because whatever
58
THE DEFINITION OF THE GREAT SCHOOL
penalties Nature provides for the violations of her
laws are fixed and immutable. Man has not the
remotest chance of violating a natural law without
suffering the exact penalty which Nature has pre-
scribed for such violation.
In these facts we have the positive assurance
that her authority is absolute, and hence, it is ade-
quate.
Of course, we know that man may, if he so
elects, violate any or all of Nature's laws for the
government of mankind. But we know, at the same
time, that he cannot do so without suffering the
penalties prescribed therefor.
Hence, when man knowingly and intentionally
violates a natural law, he knows also that he there-
by invokes upon himself a penalty which Nature
has the power to exact and enforce, and that she
will not shade nor mitigate that penalty in the
slightest degree.
If an individual deliberately takes a deadly poi-
son into his system, he knows that Nature will
exact his own life as a penalty for this violation
of her constructive law of individual life. If he
does such an act, he does it well knowing that he
cannot avoid nor evade the natural penalty. This
is because he recognizes the absolute authority of
the Law-Maker, as well as the automatic certainty
and inevitability of the penalty prescribed there-
for.
If a man deliberately puts a bullet through his
own heart, he knows at the time that the unavoid-
able penalty for his violation of the Law of Indi-
vidual Life is death. He invokes the penalty upon
59
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
himself, and Nature is careful to see that it is paid
in full. There is absolutely no escape.
If the statutory laws carried with them auto-
matic penalties, as inevitable and unavoidable as
are the penalties which Nature prescribes for the
violation of her laws, it is certain that the conduct
of men, in their human relationships, would great-
ly improve. This improvement would come as a
direct result of definite knowledge that there is
no escape from the penalties of violations of the
law.
For illustration: If a thief knew in advance that
the penalty for stealing his neighbor's purse would
be confinement in Sing Sing prison, at hard labor,
for a term of ten years, and then in spite of every-
thing he might do to avoid that penalty he could
not do it, he would have a most powerful reason
to exercise self-control over the desire and impulse
to steal that purse. If, however, he believed that
he could steal it and escape the penalty, he might
take the chance, as many people do take such
chances under present state laws.
60
CHAPTER IX
THE PROBLEM RESOLVED
At this point a question arises which has been
asked many times. It is something like this:
Suppose the members of the "Brotherhood of
Man", such as herein defined, should undertake to
live their individual lives in obedience to Nature's
laws and suppose they do not know many of the
laws that are absolutely vital to their success and
well being, both as individuals and as a Brother-
hood, what then? Is there a sufficient remedy for
such a condition as this? Most assuredly. What is
it? It is purely educational.
In fact, the education of such a Brotherhood as
we have in mind in a definite knowledge of Na-
ture's Laws, would constitute a complete remedy
—in just so far as such education were successfully
carried forward.
Does not this suggestion carry with it the assur-
ance that education is the one most powerful con-
structive factor in the perpetuity and continuity of
our "Brotherhood of Man"? Would not that soon
become the common and most intense struggle of
the members of such a Brotherhood—namely, to
know the law that they may obey it?
What is Education? Natural Science defines it
thus :
Education is the process by which the Individual
61
THE BROTH ERHOOD OF MAN
acquires a definite knowledge of all the facts of
nature in all the realms of human interest—physi-
cal, mental, moral, spiritual and psychical. It is
also the accumulated knowledge thus acquired.
With this definition impressed on Consciousness,
it is for all members of "The Brotherhood" to
strive to become "educated". There is no greater
nor more important work to which they can pos-
sibly devote themselves.
When it is known that, through education, it is
possible for man to advance his knowledge of
Nature and Nature's laws to realms of spiritual
life and nature far beyond the limitations of this
physical life, one can readily appreciate what a
powerful incentive this would be to elevate the
standard of education in such an institution to the
highest level possible.
Permit me to call attention to the fact that, just
here in this matter of education in an exact and
definite knowledge of the meaning and application
of Nature's laws, is one of the vital points wherein
the various Brotherhoods so far examined make
a fundamental error. This is in the fact that they
do not seem to understand or appreciate that the
most powerful and vital interest in which their
members must share is the community of knowl-
edge. This means the community of education.
Omit this factor from any Brotherhood among
mankind, and the vital element upon which its
very life and perpetuation depend has been left
out.
Let us now go back and see how far along we are
with the definition of Personal Responsibility in
this connection.
62
THE PROBLEM RESOLVED
Following the analysis as far as we have gone,
we find that "Personal Responsibility is the Obli-
gation which God, or Nature, fixes upon the indi-
vidual" * * *
But what is that obligation? What does it in-
volve? What does it exact from the individual
upon whom it is fixed?
Inasmuch as the measure of any obligation is the
exact and definite knowledge the individual has,
at any given time, of its meaning, and the law of
Constructive Growth is the Right Use of that
knowledge, and Nature's purpose is the evolution
of the individual intelligence, and the only stand-
ard of right use is the full measure of knowledge
which the individual possesses at any given time;
therefore, the obligation which God, or Nature,
thus fixes upon the individual is to conform his life
to his own standard of Equity, Justice and Right.
Moral Accountability is the soul's recognition
that there is a Moral Order in Nature, and that the
Individual Intelligence, or Soul, is bound by that
Moral Order to exemplify Morality in the living
of his life, to the full measure of his knowledge.
But Nature is never unjust. She does not hold
any individual personally responsible beyond the
measure of his own individual knowledge. His
Personal Responsibility, therefore, is "the Obliga-
tion which God, or Nature, fixes upon him to con-
form his life to his own standard of Equity, Justice
and Right." Why his own standard? Because, for
him, there is no other.
By the process of elimination of the terms de-
fined, and the substitution of the definitions of
Natural Science therefor, we have the following
63
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
extended definition of "The Brotherhood of Man" \
"The exemplification by each Individual of a
Moral Order of Nature, and of the fact that he is
bound by the floral Law to discharge the Obliga-
tion which God, or Nature, fixes upon every such
member, to conform his life to his own standard of
Equity, Justice and Right."
Such is the TRUE meaning of The Brotherhood
of Man.
64
CHAPTER X
nature's moral standard
One of the problems of human life which has
puzzled many of the wisest and ablest men of all
time, is whether or not there is such a thing in
Nature as a definite "standard of Morality, or
Morals."
The confusion arises out of the following deduc-
tions:
1. God, or Nature, is just.
2. No two individual human souls are the same
in point of development.
3. No two possess the same knowledge of Na-
ture's laws.
4. No two have the same power of Self-Con-
trol.
5. No two have the same degree of intelligence
or understanding.
6. No two are influenced by the same environ-
ment.
7. No two have the same evolutionary unfold-
ment.
8. There are all shades and degrees of devel-
opment, knowledge, self-control, intelligence, un-
derstanding and education among the human fami-
iy.
9. How, then, is it possible for Nature to estab-
lish any single, definite, arbitrary and unvarying
65
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
standard of Morality, or Morals, that will include
and apply to all mankind?
10. How can it be possible, in justice, to estab-
lish any arbitrary standard of Morality or Morals,
which shall apply to all these children of men, the
same?
11. It must be that Nature is unjust.
But Nature says to us: "I am Just; for in fixing
a standard of Morality, or Morals, T have taken
into account every element, fact and condition you
have mentioned, as well as an almost infinite num-
ber of additional inequalities; and T have formu-
lated a Standard that fits them all, with absolute
scientific exactness and precision.
"I have done this by making knowledge, and
soul growth the basis on which T measure the
degree of Moral Accountability and Personal Re-
sponsibility. In exact measure with his knowledge,
at any given time, I make man Morally Account-
able and Personally Responsible."
The infant, at physical birth, is neither Morally
Accountable nor Personally Responsible, from our
human measure of values. Why? Because it has
no intelligence or knowledge which, as yet, meas-
ures up to our man-made standards.
Under statutory laws your own boy docs not
reach the full stature of Personal Responsibility
and Moral Accountability until he has arrived at
the physical age of 21 years. The day before he
reaches his "majority" he is still an "infant" —
under the law of the land. The day afterwards he
is a man. At the age of 18 he may possess greater
knowledge and wisdom than your neighbor of 50
who is the father of half a dozen children. Never-
66
NATURE'S MORAL STANDARD
theless, your son is an infant, under the law, and
your neighbor is a man. But the boy is not morally
accountable nor personally responsible for his ac-
tions, according to our human standards, while
your neighbor is. Does this seem to exemplify
Equity, Justice and Right? Clearly not.
Nature, however, measures the accountability
and the responsibility of both boy and man, each
by the sum of his individual knowledge and indi-
vidual soul development. But this is his own indi-
vidual standard. It is neither yours nor mine nor
that of any other individual whomsoever. It is the
individual's own personalized standard.
This gives to each of them the definite knowl-
edge and soul growth by which he may determine
his own exact and just moral standard and the
degree of his own personal responsibility. Neither
can bind the other by any but the individual's own
standard. I cannot hold you to my standard, nor
can you hold me to yours.
Nature does not even so much as attempt to do
so. On the other hand, she holds each individual
morally accountable and personally responsible
only in strict accordance with his own standard —
which means his own knowledge and full develop-
ment. In truth, by what other standard could even
Nature justly measure the degree of any individu-
al's accountability and responsibility under her
Law? None whatever.
Under the definition, which expresses Nature's
own concept of Moral Accountability and Per-
sonal Responsibility, it will be observed that each
individual is bound to conform his life solely and
67
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
entirely to his own standard of Equity, Justice and
Right
Under this standard which Nature holds each
of us bound by, there arc as many different stand-
ards of Moral Accountability and Personal Re-
sponsibility as there are different individuals upon
the earth at any given time. Even so, each standard
fits the individual to which it belongs, and it can-
not possibly fit any other.
Compare this, the meaning of the measure of
Moral Accountability and Personal Responsibili-
ty, with another phase of Nature's plan and pur-
pose, and observe how perfectly they supplement
each other.
Natural Science does not hesitate to assure us
that, measured by all the exact knowledge it has
acquired, up to the present time, the apparent
purpose of Nature in reference to man as a human
being, is the evolution of an Individual Intelli-
gence.
Note the important fact that the process is one
which has to do with the Individual Intelligence
only. This is a natural concomitant of the Moral
Order of Nature which gives to every man an
individual moral standard that is scientifically
adjusted to him and him only. Take note also that
this docs not even contemplate a single Moral
Standard for all mankind regardless of individual
knowledge, soul growth or individuality achieved.
68
CHAPTER XI
INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION
There inevitably comes a time, in the evolution
of the Individual Intelligence and Soul Growth,
when its knowledge of Nature's laws and purposes
is sufficient to emancipate it from the individual
status of "Psychic Infancy" and irresponsibility,
and give to it both Moral Accountability and Per-
sonal Responsibility.
When this evolutionary point is reached the
Individual Intelligence or Soul, has attained to a
degree of personal knowledge and psychic devel-
opment where he becomes a conscious and volun-
tary cooperator with Nature in the evolution of
his individuality and soul growth. At this point
he becomes an intelligent and voluntary factor in
his own individual evolution. From this point for-
ward he adds the impulse of his own voluntary
and intelligent efforts to the effort of Nature, and
thus greatly accelerates the progress of his own
individual development.
Until he reaches the point of "Psychic Majority
and Emancipation", however, Nature carries for-
ward his evolutionary progress alone. Up to this
point, therefore, his evolutionary unfoldment is
less rapid than it is thereafter, whence the indi-
vidual adds the impulse of his own intelligent per-
sonal effort to that of Nature.
In the process of individualizing and evolving a
69
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
human soul, therefore, it is of the most vital im-
portance to the individual that he reach the point
of psychic emancipation as early as possible, that
he may thereafter add his own personal effort to
the impulse of Nature, thereby increasing the rap-
idity of his own evolutionary unfoldmcnt and
development.
This naturally leads to the question: What is
Nature's evolutionary process by and through
which the individual human may attain Psychic
Emancipation and Moral Accountability?
There is but one. It is definite, simple and direct.
It is the Education of the individual in a definite,
exact and scientific personal knowledge of Na-
ture's laws, to the point where he shall attain his
psychic majority and thereafter apply his knowl-
edge to aid Nature voluntarily in his own soul
growth.
It is this Education of the individual that be-
comes the central impulse and most uplifting
inspiration of every individual member of "The
Brotherhood of Man" which answers perfectly the
terms and conditions of our definition.
It can now be seen with clearness and certainty
that the great central and most exalted purpose, as
well as permanent occupation of such a Brother-
hood of Man, becomes that of carrying forward
the great work of Individual Education as rapidly
and perfectly as possible, to the end that each mem-
ber of the Brotherhood shall achieve psychic eman-
cipation and soul independence which shall invest
him with the knowledge and power to supplement
Nature in her Evolution and Unfoldmcnt of Indi-
vidual Intelligence, by his added voluntary and
70
INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION
intelligent personal effort, to the full measure of
his personal knowledge and power.
Viewing the subject from the standpoint of the
individual member of such a Brotherhood, it ap-
pears that the logical, impelling and inspiring
impulse and inevitable occupation of each and
every member of such a Brotherhood is twofold:
1. Helping Nature, by the added impulse of
his own personal effort, to carry forward his own
education as rapidly as possible and attain the
most exalted evolutionary individual unfoldment.
2. Helping those who are less developed than
himself, to arrive at the point of their psychic
emancipation, as rapidly as may be possible, that
they also may add the impulse of their knowledge
and voluntary power to the effort of Nature in
carrying forward the Great Work of Evolution
and Soul Growth.
If the student and reader will make a careful and
logical study of the outline of the activities of such
a Brotherhood as has been defined, he can hardly
fail to arrive at the conclusion that in the establish-
ment of "The Brotherhood of Man', such as has
been outlined, elucidated and defined, we have
arrived at the point along the path of evolution,
where in human relationships, competition has vir-
tually been eliminated from the field of human
activities and purposes, and cooperation has be-
come the basic and central inspiration.
Having achieved psychic emancipation, and
entered upon the cooperative endeavor to add the
impulse of his own voluntary effort to the effort
of Nature in his behalf, the combined impulse
thereafter gives birth to what the world knows as
71
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
Altruism. It is the impulse to help his fellow man
over the evolutionary pathway he has travelled,
and give to him the benefit of the same education
and evolutionary unfoldment that were received by
him, and thus give to his fellows a full equivalent
of the definite knowledge he has received.
In this connection a study of the working of the
Law of Compensation will explain why the mem-
bers of such a Brotherhood enter with intense
enthusiasm into the occupation of giving to their
less advanced fellows the knowledge they have
received from those who are yet beyond them in
knowledge and unfoldment. It is because they have
arrived at a degree of unfoldment where to know
the law is to obey it. Under the Law of Compensa-
tion, having received in such generous abundance
from their fellows, they know that they must give
in equal measure to those who arc following in
their footsteps. As ye receive, so shall ye give; this
is the law of life. Those who receive most must
also give most; and the business of life is now that
of Receiving and Giving. Those who receive the
knowledge which the Brotherhood has to give
know that they must balance the Law of Compen-
sation by giving in equal measure to those who need
what they can give.
This will suggest why and how it is that such a
Brotherhood becomes a truly great educational
institution. It will explain why it is that the utmost
care should be taken to guard against mistakes in
the methods of instruction to be employed, as well
as in the curriculum of education to be covered.
This latter must be such that it shall cover every
department of constructive human character, every
72
INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION
phase of individual evolution along constructive
lines.
It must not be limited to the facts of Nature
and of Nature's laws upon the plane of physical
life and knowledge only.
Neither must it be limited to education con-
cerning the facts of Nature even upon both the
physical and the spiritual planes of life and activ-
ity; for that would omit the most vital of all the
realms of individual life, namely, the realm of the
Soul itself.
In other words, the curriculum of study neces-
sary to meet the needs of the real Brotherhood of
Man must be such that it shall cover a definite
knowledge of the facts of physical life and physical
laws, spiritual life and spiritual laws, and finally,
psychical life and psychical laws—as far as these
can be definitely unfolded to human intelligence.
Since Nature fixes upon each Individual Intelli-
gence the obligation to balance his account under
the Law of Compensation, it follows that he must
hold himself bound under the Great Law to pass
on to his fellows the knowledge he has received.
Hence, one of the most important objective points
along the pathway of his own development is to
qualify himself for the active work of instruction.
Every student along the way should be made to
understand and appreciate the fact that, so long as
he occupies that status, he is primarily a Receiver
who must ultimately become an Instructor before
he can pass on the knowledge he has received,
become a Giver, and pay his debts to Nature.
This will suggest how important it is that each
individual member of "The Brotherhood of Man"
73
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
charge himself, at the beginning of his real stu-
dentship, with the responsibility of becoming an
Instructor fully qualified to pass on to others, who
need such help, the knowledge he has received
from his own Instructor.
This, however, is one of the responsibilities
which many of the members arc most reluctant to
acknowledge and discharge. They put it off as
long as possible, often because they feel themselves
lacking in the qualifications of a good instructor,
or in the ability to impart the knowledge they have
so generously received. If such is the case, then it
is clear that they have not completed the work of
studentship; for no student has completed his
course of instruction, as such, until he has taken
the full course in how to instruct, and proven him-
self duly qualified as a competent Instructor. For
then only is he prepared to repay his indebtedness
under the Law of Compensation, by passing on his
knowledge to those of his brothers who need and
are entitled to receive what he has received and is
ready to give in return.
Thus only is it possible for the individual to
become a real member of "The Brotherhood of
Man."
74
QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP
That each and every individual may have a clear
and comprehensive understanding and apprecia-
tion of the responsibilities he voluntarily assumes,
or is asking that he be permitted to assume, when
he applies for membership in the "Brotherhood of
Man", let us digress far enough to inform ourselves
as to what constitutes the chief qualifications of a
good Instructor in such an institution. Here they
are:
Intelligence: Such an Instructor must have the
intelligence necessary to receive the definite in-
struction, in the form prescribed by the Brother-
hood itself. He must be able to understand and
appreciate the exact meaning and intent of the
knowledge which such an instruction embodies.
He must be able to know each step in the process
of acquiring an exact knowledge of the full and
complete curriculum of study to be covered. He
must have the intelligence to acquire a definite
knowledge of the exact terminology in which the
instruction is formulated and given; and he must
be able to give it as he receives it, in the purity of
its terminology.
Desire for Knowledge : He must have an honest
and earnest desire to receive the definite knowl-
edge which will justify the Brotherhood in accept-
ing him as a worthy member.
75
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
Honesty: He must exemplify the quality and
degree of Honesty that entitles him to the confi-
dence of the members of the Brotherhood with
whom he desires to associate himself. He must be
honest in his purpose and in his efforts to make
only a constructive use of such knowledge as he
shall be able to receive. He must be honest in his
efforts to give his knowledge so received, in its
purity, to those who are entitled to receive it from
him in return. He must be honest in that he shall
not misrepresent the Brotherhood or its teachings,
in any way, by substituting his or any other teach-
ings for those of this Brotherhood.
Courage: He must have the courage of frank-
ness and sincerity in all his dealings and associa-
tions with the Brotherhood and all its members.
He must have the Courage to exemplify the spirit
of the teachings of the Brotherhood in passing on
his knowledge to those entitled to receive it from
him.
In this connection, he must know that the highest
quality of Courage often demands of him that he
withhold from his students, or fellows, the knowl-
edge he has received, even when his sympathy and
natural desires would impel him to give it. He
must know that his responsibility as an Instructor
may even demand of him that he suspend the in-
struction of a student at any time, in the interests
of the Brotherhood. When this occurs, he must
have the courage to discharge that responsibility
without the least equivocation or hesitancy. If his
student proves unworthy of confidence, as such, or
that he is not ready to receive the knowledge he
desires, he must have the courage to discontinue
76
QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP
his instruction until such time as he shall qualify
for further instruction.
Humility: He must exemplify the quality and
degree of Humility which is free from egotism,
vanity of intelligence, self-exploitation, or the
desire to command public attention or public ap-
plause. He must not seek to command attention, or
curiosity, or fictitious importance, or false knowl-
edge, through psychic phenomena, or exhibitions
of spiritual powers. He must have the humility to
refrain from unnecessary talking, and from ex-
ploiting his knowledge for any ulterior purpose
that is not constructive and uplifting and of value
to those who hear. He should bear in mind that the
fewer the words in which he can express his knowl-
edge and instructions, the less he will obtrude his
personality upon his student and distract his atten-
tion from the knowledge to be conveyed. True
humility is, in truth, one of the rarest characteris-
tics and virtues of a wise Instructor.
Unselfishness: The qualified Instructor will
never seek to commercialize the knowledge or
instruction he has received as a gift from his in-
structor to qualify him for the responsibility of
passing on his spiritual and psychical knowledge
in the course of the curriculum of the Brother-
hood.
Tolerance: The duly qualified Instructor must
be free from criticism, and the disposition or tend-
ency to judge his fellows. He must be able to
differentiate and distinguish between mistakes and
deliberate wrong doing, and exemplify a generous
forbearance toward the errors and frailties and
the imperfections of his fellow man.
77
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
He must be kind and considerate with all his
fellows. He must be cheerful and trustworthy. He
must strive with all his intelligence and strength,
to exemplify the spirit of constructive service in
his own life, that he may thus make it a beacon
light to guide the students and members who shall
pass that way.
While it is admitted that this is setting an exalted
standard of individual character by which to meas-
ure the qualifications of a Good Instructor in the
real "Brotherhood of Man", nevertheless, the
measure is strictly within the powers of those who
are willing to assume the responsibility, and labor
in good faith to discharge it to the full limits of
their abilities.
Does it seem possible to you, reader and friend,
that there is such a "Brotherhood of Man" upon
this physical earth of ours, having a definite cur-
riculum of study covering so vast a field of actual
knowledge as T have so brieflv indicated and out-
lined?
Would my unqualified personal assurance of
that fact carry with it to your mind any assurance
that T have been giving you, in substance, but a
brief outline of a great educational institution
which has been in actual existence for many, many
years, having a curriculum covering even a broader
field than that outlined?
Such, indeed, is the case. The name bv which it
is known at the present time is — "The Great
School of Natural Science". Moreover, this Great
School, throughout the history of many past gener-
ations, has been seeking to give to the world such
78
QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP
of its knowledge of Individual Life, here and here-
after, as lies within its power.
This School has carried its scientific researches
beyond the plane of the purely physical inquiry,
into realms of the spiritual and the psychical de-
partments of Nature. It has accumulated a vast
store of definite knowledge in these higher and
finer realms of its researches, and is ever ready to
pass it on to those who are able to prove their right
to receive its instruction.
This, however, does not imply that the School of
Natural Science has accomplished a definite and
exact knowledge of all the facts of physical nature.
Neither does it indicate a scientific knowledge of
all the facts of either spiritual or psychical nature.
It does mean, however, that this Great School
of Natural Science, during the period of authentic
history, has been acquiring and accumulating a
wide range of exact and definite knowledge in all
the departments and on all the planes of individual
life, physical, spiritual and psychical.
It means also that this Great School has devel-
oped a definite and complete method of imparting
its knowledge to the world, as rapidly as earnest
seekers desire to receive it and can demonstrate
to the School that they are duly and truly prepared,
worthy and well qualified to "keep the secrets
of the Masters", and exemplify their teachings in
their daily lives and conduct, thus becoming "liv-
ing lamps to guide the feet of the just and true",
in the Way that leads to Spiritual Life and Soul
Illumination.
79
CHAPTER XIII
THE TRUE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
We come now to the final analysis, the final step,
the final measure, the final TEST, by which we
shall determine, with scientific certainty, whether
our "Brotherhood of Man" meets the requirements
of "The Great Universal Brotherhood" by which
God, or Nature, fixes the full measure of its final
value and determination.
By the simple test of universality alone, we have
found that among all the many Brotherhoods, such
as the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the
Brotherhood of Carpenters, the Brotherhood of
Barbers, the Brotherhood of Fruit Growers, the
Junior Order of American Mechanics, the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor, the various Religious
Brotherhoods, the Social Brotherhoods, the Fra-
ternal Brotherhoods, the Political Brotherhoods,
the Brotherhood of Socialism, the Brotherhood of
Anarchism, the Brotherhood of Communism —
every one has proven inadequate and insufficient.
Its failure and imperfection are proven by two
distinguishing facts:
1. That the tie of mutual interest which binds
the members together is selfish.
2. That its membership is strictly exclusive and
limited to a single class.
The same may be said, with equal sincerity and
80
THE TRUE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
truth, concerning every other form of Brotherhood
among men, limited to the same conditions.
Its fatal weakness lies in the fact of its selfishness
and lack of universality.
Wherein, if at all, does "The Brotherhood of
Man" which has been defined, analyzed, and eluci-
dated, fall short of the exalted standard of our
definition? Let us submit it to the final test, that
there may remain no shadow of uncertainty as to
its accuracy, sufficiency and universal application.
It meets every condition, as follows:
1. The tie of mutual interest is one which binds
its members in one common bond with the broad,
universal, prevailing and all-comprehensive pur-
pose which unites them in a single fellowship with
a mutual endeavor as its central inspiration to
action.
2. It is a work of education in which all mem-
bers are inspired by the same motive and impulse
to Give and Receive under the great Law of Com-
pensation, without material fee or reward.
3. It has in mind the greater benefit and evolu-
tionary unfoldment and development of all men,
both within and without the strictly limited mem-
bership of the Brotherhood.
4. It has the unselfish desire and purpose to be-
come worthy and constructive servants of humanity
and thus extend the helping hand of Brotherly
Love, Relief and Truth to all mankind.
Bear in mind that the definite purpose and occu-
pation of each and every individual member of
"The Brotherhood of Man" are those of Educ-
ation. As a Brotherhood it is one great, crystallized
81
THE BROTH F.RHOOD OF MAN
Educational Institute in which the business of
every member is to acquire the knowledge which
the Brotherhood has to give, then become a duly
qualified Instructor to pass on the curriculum of
study to his less advanced fellows. Thus each
member receives and he gives, and thereby finds
that his purpose and occupation become one, in
that he thereafter devotes himself to the business
of life — the discharge of his Personal Responsi-
bility, under the great Law of Compensation. He
is now an Educator, charged with the business of
serving his younger brothers as guide and fellow
traveler along the evolutionary pathway of Life
toward the goal of Individual Endeavors.
In this School of Individual Effort he is seeking
not alone for knowledge of life upon this planet
of earth. He has come to know much of the life of
the spiritual, and something of the life and evolu-
tionary unfoldment of the Soul. Thus, the vista of
knowledge, of wisdom, of power and of possibili-
ties of individual human unfoldment gives to him
an evolutionary perspective that inspires his cour-
age, hope, faith and determination to go onward
and ever onward toward the limitless expanse of
the infinite.
But there is one vital point you are not to over-
look nor forget. It is this:
While it is true that the active membership of
"The Brotherhood of Man" is limited to those who
have received the Instruction and have themselves
become Instructors, all of them, both Receivers
of Knowledge and Givers of Knowledge con-
cerning the Great Problems of Life, are vastly
82
THE TRUE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
more than mere members of the Brotherhood of
Man.
They have reached the point of individual evo-
lution where they are recognized, and, likewise
recognize themselves, as Brothers of All Mankind.
They know that they are Brothers, real Soul
Brothers, of the Black Man, the Brown Man, the
Red Man, the Yellow Man and the White Man.
They know that they are, deep down within their
inmost Soul, Brothers of the evolutionary infants
of earth life, for whom it is their privilege, their
responsibility, their pleasure and their pride, to
render such constructive service as lies within their
power.
They know that they are, likewise, Brothers of
the evolutionary children of earth, the youth, the
mature and the aged, whom it is their mission to
serve.
They know that they are Brothers of the weak,
the strong, the great, the small, the wise, the ig-
norant, the good and the evil.
They know that they are Brothers of the crim-
inal, the dishonest, the bestial, the murderer, the
selfish and the greedy, whom they must help.
They know that they are Brothers of those who
foment strife, agitate discord, incite wars, live upon
the crimes of lust, rapine and every form of degra-
dation and sin; and yet, these are their charges, for
whom they are responsible.
They know that they are Brothers of All Man-
kind; that it is their mission, their duty, their re-
sponsibility, their earnest desire and endeavor to
serve them ALL.
They have affection for them because they are
83
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
all Children of God, or Nature, and the protecting
shelter of the Great Law rests over them.
They would go out, in gentle charity and tender
mercy, to all who have not grown to the evolution-
ary stature of responsibility. These they would
lead by the "Hand of Love"; they would serve
them and help them and instruct them in a knowl-
edge of Nature's beneficent purposes, and finally
would point them to the Pathway of Duty.
These are not mere figures of speech. They are
the simple facts of Nature and they arc exemplified
every day, the world over, by those who have
entered into the Work of the Great School of Na-
tural Science and found their educational stations
where they can best serve those who most need the
help of an Elder Brother of Humanity.
This also is the occupation, the business and the
profession of a member of the real Brotherhood of
Man, to render to his "younger brother" whatever
service he shall need, whether physical, mental,
moral, spiritual or psychical.
The responsibility is on the real Brother, because
of his greater knowledge and richer wisdom, to
determine the real need to be supplied and the
service to be rendered. To his keener vision and
broader knowledge, he may observe that his
younger Brother who has not yet arrived at the
evolutionary status of discretion, is lacking the
knowledge, the wisdom and the discretion to de-
termine, in advance, that which shall render to him
the largest service and richest reward, at any given
time. As the loving mother may find her child lack-
ing the knowledge and discretion to determine the
appropriate need or service of the hour, the respon-
84
THE TRUE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
sibility of fitting the need to the occasion becomes
hers and not the child's. With all the mother-love
of her heart she accepts the burden, with joy and
enthusiasm, because she knows the immaturity and
the lack of judgment that would impel the child
in its immature decision and choice.
So with her great discretion she may find it the
part of wisdom to deny the child the present ful-
fillment of its childish dream. She may find that
personal responsibility shall compel her to with-
hold the coveted prize, that time and circumstances
shall prove the wisdom of her judgment.
So it is that the Elder Brother shall give or with-
hold from his younger Brother whatsoever his
greater knowledge and experience shall suggest to
his greater discretion and wisdom. He must carry
the burden of responsibility and point the way to
constructive unfoldment.
In the Great School of Natural Science the Mas-
ters point the way for their Students. They journey
with them over the pathway of initiation. They
also must give or withhold whatsoever the con-
structive unfoldment of the student demands
—
physical, spiritual, mental, moral or psychical.
They must not only know the Way that leads to
the goal of Mastership, but they must see that the
Initiate, through his Personal Effort, travels every
step of the way, conforming his life to the construc-
tive demands of the Great Law.
The Brotherhood of Man is but another name
for the same great Work. It is but the crystalized
and perfect Ideal of which the School of Natural
Science is the working model and the living exem-
plification. Together they constitute a splendid
85
THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAX
unit, in scope, method and purpose; and hencefor-
ward the Ideal and the Working Model shall
merge into the REAL "Brotherhood of Man."
Thus have the Masters among mankind
glimpsed the perfect design which God has placed
upon the Trestleboard of Nature, and patterned
upon the Evolutionary Scheme of Individual Life.
By his conscious and voluntary Personal Effort
has Man become the working unit in the Great
School of Life. By his intelligent personal effort
and accumulated wisdom of experience has he
added the Evolutionary Impulse of his individual
energies to the greater impulse of Nature; and to-
gether the two, working in conscious and intelli-
gent harmony to one sublime culmination, have
attained their final consummation in
86
'THE GREAT UNIVERSAL
BROTHERHOOD."
We are all Brothers in this sublime organiza-
tion. We are all, as Individuals and as Brothers,
obligated to help each other to travel the way of
Evolutionary Unfoldment. We are all, as Elder
Brothers who have gone before, responsible to
guide and uplift our younger Brothers as they
climb the mountain of Individual Growth and De-
velopment. We are all fellow travelers. We are all
here to live and to exemplify the Universal Broth-
erhood of Man.
And now that we have found our working sta-
tions within the greatest Institution of which hu-
manity has definite knowledge, let us go forward,
with ever-increasing courage and determination,
toward that great goal of Nature's Universal
Brotherhood of Man — that goal which is the —
"Exemplification of Moral Accountability in the
Mutual Discharge of Personal Responsibility."
So Mote It Ever Be!
87
The following page contains a list of
the publications of
The Great School of Natural Science
LITERATURE
of
Thi Great School or Natural Science
Vol. I. Harmonics of Evolution, Florence Huntley $4.00
The Struggle for Happiness, and Individual
Completion Through Polarity or Affinity.
Vol. II. The Great Psychological Crime
The Destructive Principle of Sature in
Individual Life.
Vol. HI. The Great Work f
The Constructive Primiple of Nature I .
p
in Individual Life. \ „ . , .
'
V Richardson
Vol. IV. The Great Known / TK $4.0
H' hat Sciente Knows of the
Spiritual World.
Vol. V. Tre Great Message 1 $4.00
The Lineal Key of the Great
School of the Masters.
Vol. I. Self-Unfoldment ) $3.0(1
> J. K. Richardson. TK
Vol. II. Self-Unfoldment ) $3.00
The Practical .1 pplication of Moral Print i pies
to the Living of a Life.
The Brotherhood of Man. J. E. Richardson, TK $2. SO
Who Answers Prayer? PO, KA, TK $2.00
To You (MAGAZINE) per year $3.00
PIONEER PRESS
25355 Spanish Ranch Road
Los Gatos, California
jfor IJrosreftatbe people
THE GREAT SCHOOL, OR THE SCHOOL OF NATURAL
SCIENCE, is the modern name for that venerable School of
Wisdom whose records are the most ancient at this time known
to man. For many thousands of years this School has influenced
the civilization and work of every great nation of earth, and
with unceasing labors its members have toiled for the advance-
ment of the human race from ignorance to knowledge, from
darkness to light.
In 1883 this Great School established its personal Work in
this country, and since that time thousands of "Progressive
People" have become readers and students of the Science and
the Philosophy which have now been presented in eight pub-
lished volumes or text-books of the School. Each book is com-
plete in itself. These textbooks are known as the "Harmonic
Series."
Vol. I, HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION. By Florence Hunt-
ley. This initial volume covers that universal principle in
nature of individual affinity, and individual love, which operates
throughout the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms.
It is a declaration and a scientific and philosophical exposition
of the following three propositions, viz:
—
THERE IS NO DEATH.
LIFE AFTER PHYSICAL DEATH IS A FACT SCIEN-
TIFICALLY DEMONSTRABLE.
LIFE HERE AND HEREAFTER HAS A COMMON DE-
VELOPMENT AND A COMMON PURPOSE.
This work constitutes a light and guide to modern men and
women engaged in the "Struggle for Happiness in a seemingly
hostile environment."
Price $4.00
THE GREAT WORK
J. E. RICHARDSON, TK
Vol. Ill
Harmonic Series
This book is also from the pen of the author of "THE
BROTH KR HOOD OF MAN," and is a presentation,
analysis and elucidation of the fundamental principle and
working formulary of The Great School of Natural Sci-
ence, which principle and formulary are known to the
"Masters of the Law" and their students and friends as
the "constructive principle of nature in individual life."
The author of "The Great Work" was the American
Representative of The Great School of the Masters, a
School which was hoary with ape when the foundation
of the great Pyramid was laid ; a School which antedates
all present authentic history and records; a School against
which the waves of superstition and ignorance have dashed
in vain, because its foundation is the rock of TRUTH.
This book shows that there is a great difference between
Belief and Knowledge, and proves that mere beliefs are
of little value to the one who would prove that there is
a life beyond the grave. He must Know and Do, and this
book points the way.
"The Great Work" is unique in that its statements
are verified facts which every reader may prove for him-
self under right guidance if he but have the "Intelligence
to know, the Courage to dare, and the Perseverance to
do." The Philosophy taught in this book appeals to both
Reason and Conscience, and is an inspiration to "live the
life and know the law." Every student realizes that, if he
M u ills, he may be an heir to the Wisdom of the Ages.
"The Great Work" belongs in your Library.
Price $4.00
THE GREAT MESSAGE
by
J. E. RICHARDSON TK
Vol. V
Harmonic Serie9
This inspiring book is an introduction to the findings of The
Great School of the Masters. The Great School is that great
Central Source and Reservoir of Knowledge (Religious, Philo-
sophical, Moral, Physical, Spiritual and Psychical) which the
best intelligences of all ages have intuitively sensed and defi-
nitely accepted as the great beneficent, constructive, uplifting
and progressive influence in the Evolution of Mankind from
Spiritual Infancy and Darkness to Soul Maturity and Illumin-
ation.
The records of The Great School contain a detailed account
of the Life and Work of the Master Jesus. To this school He
went for His spiritual instruction. In it He spent the years of
His special preparation. From it he went forth to preach the
Gospel of Peace on Earth and the Kingdom of Love. For the
cause it represents, He labored and suffered and died.
Besides our own Master Jesus, there were numerous other
Masters, who were commissioned by The Great School to bring
its Message of Life, Light and Immortality to the world. Some
of the most well known are, Confucius, Zarathustra, Buddha,
Moses, Krishna, Eliola, Pythagoras and Melchizedek:
The pathway of The Great School of the Masters is again
open to true seekers after Truth, and the duly and truly pre-
pared, worthy and well qualified may find the way to its Temple
of Light and without money and without price receive such
knowledge as they may merit.
A modern movement known as The Great School of Natural
Science has been launched by the Great Parent School of the
Masters to give to the Progressive Intelligence of the twentieth
century a definite and scientific presentation of THE PHIL-
OSOPHY OF INDIVIDUAL LIFE as taught by its members
throughout all the past ages.
Those who find in THE GREAT MESSAGE an inspiration
to seek further Light will have a new and broader outlook on
life, and renewed zeal to make the most of it. The door to the
Temple of Wisdom is ajar.
$4.00
