{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dustine_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Dustine S NDE 314\/372\/456","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dustine S NDE 314/372/456            	        Dustine S NDE 372  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dustine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1283 Dustine S NDE 314/372/456  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 456  					</p>  					

  					  Under Morphine, I experienced soaring in a silent sky over vibrant orange terrain much like I've seen on TV, Monument Valley.  I was soaring like the little girl in Peter Pan, wearing an ankle length garment of some white satiny fabric.  I could feel the wind on my face and the leading edges of my arms, but not a sound.  Ahead of me was the most beautiful, gigantic, orange, glowing setting sun.  It emitted the most magnetic pull on me, and I knew I had to be there.  I needed to be there and I was joyous.  Then I became aware of other people who just like me, were soaring to the sun.  It was a wonderful place to be.  Then I felt slam dunked back into a broken agonizing body.  I didn't remember this experience right away, but over the course of the next few days and even years, I put it together.  It explained some of my anger.  The surgeon told me during the first emergency surgery I ‘kept trying to kiss the angels.’ He had to get me out of anesthesia right away.

I was given Ketamine for my third surgery in as many days.  I was told to expect 'nice dreams.’  Okay, I thought, sounds good.  But it was just the opposite.  It was a hellish experience.  I found myself running in a dark and frightening place.  There were knee high creatures that looked like misshapen dwarfs, but they had huge parakeet like beaks.  I couldn't run fast enough and when they would catch up they would bite a chunk of flesh out of the calves of my legs.  I was terrified, crying, screaming.  I was so glad to wake up from that, although it took many awakenings before I could stay awake.  Each time I went to sleep, the nightmare would start all over again.  That experience was horrid.  I still remember every detail                                                          Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/18/74          again about 20 years later

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I was alone on a motorcycle.  A large truck didn't see me, ran me down.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Crushed spine, L-1, one lung collapsed, compound fracture right radius, massive abrasions on my leg and buttocks, big chunk of muscle gone from right forearm.  Later, the nurse in ICU told me I was not expected to live through the night.  During that first night in ICU, I was visited by a 'light being' of some kind, I think we would call her an angel, but I'm not sure.  She was an adult, not young but not old either.  She had long straight blonde hair.  She wore an unbleached cotton garment with a simple rope like tie at her waist.    I don't know how I knew it, but I knew she was barefoot and her garment was about ankle length.  I couldn't see her from her knee area down.  But I know she was barefoot.  The most remarkable physical attribute were her eyes.  She had large eyes that were the most intense blue, like a sky blue topaz but more intense.  She stood next to my bed and without speaking, we communicated.  She explained she had come for me, ‘I could go with her and it would be okay.’  And if I wanted to ‘roll over and die’, that was okay too.  I told her I thought there must be a reason for my state and would stay to find it.  I didn't want ‘to have to come back and do it all over.’  Interesting I would refer to reincarnation, given my religious background.  In response, she simply nodded and was gone.  I remember thinking she was not as I had expected an angel to be.  I thought she would be ‘singing hymns from heaven’, but she was very matter of fact.  That annoyed me a bit.    She returned, the next evening with the same offer.  I responded the same.  She came one more time and explained she would not be back again.  But the offer to go with her still stood.  I again replied I would stay.  With a 'very well' nod of her head, she disappeared.  I saw her again about twenty years later when I had the migraine headache I described in the last questionnaire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Anesthesia again, but ketamine.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time.  Space seemed as real to me then as it does now.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In the garden behind the wall I heard bird song, very clear and lovely.  The breeze in the trees caused their leaves to rustle together, sounding almost like music.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was running from the horrid demonic creatures.  This is the only hellish experience I have ever been in, lucid or otherwise.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In that the sunshine was more intense, the colors more vibrant that anything on earth.  I could see life 'pulsing' through the leaves of the trees.  The closest way I have been able to describe the light is like on a bright sunny day, gazing up into the white clouds.  They are almost too bright a white to look at, but I can.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder, joy, peace like I've never known, curiosity, release.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I answer yes in that after these events, I was able to develop psychic skills I never had before.  I now can know something about someone that is not evident.  Not always does this happen, but often I just know.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Raised Conservative Baptist

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Much wider view; we are spiritual beings currently living in physical bodies.  God, the Universe, or however a person relates; is everything.  We are as sleepwalkers until we realize we are spiritual beings foremost, not physical.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     From conservatism to reincarnation, and a very liberal view of spirituality.  I don't use the word 'religious' any more.  It just doesn't fit in my vocabulary.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Yes.  Knowing something not evident about someone.  I can scan someone with my hands just above their body; can detect injury, old injury, disease.  I can bring a comforting relaxation to them using same technique.  Once, a lady sitting next to me in a class had a sudden nose bleed.  I was in a small Bible study at the time, some 7 or 8 years post injury.  The leader of the group suggested we pray for her immediately and she began but stopped herself, saying she thought there was someone in the room who could help.  I didn't know if it was me, but I reached over to her and put my hand lightly on the back of her neck just below her skull.  Another woman had found paper towels and we put one to the first lady's nose.  It had a faint hint of blood on it.  We looked more closely at her and there was just a thin crust of dried blood around her nostrils.  Less than a minute before she was dripping blood into the bowl of her hands.  I seem to know how to speak to a person who is suffering mentally.  The words they need to hear for peace just come to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best; knowing without a doubt that this life is only a step that I will return to the wonderful garden I saw.  My life now is one of increasing physical pain.  I walked with leg braces and canes for the first 25+ years post injury.  I lived a near normal life.  Now, the last couple of years have been quite painful due to worn out joints, tendons, muscles.  I am no longer able to walk and live with constant chronic pain.  I've had four surgeries on my shoulders and countless other 'procedures' to repair my body.  Emotionally it is really tough.  What keeps me going is my sweet husband and the life we share.  And I have a personal creed against suicide.  The Divine gave me a chance to remain in the physical and I said I would.  I don't quit.  I know the garden is waiting for me, all in good time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several over the years, and only once publicly.  NDErs aren't the oddity we used to be.  So many people are coming forward with their experiences.  But I am still careful.  My experiences are precious to me and I don’t' share them with just anyone.  In fact, I am reluctant to share until I know the person quite well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I am not a non-prescribed drug user.  I don't self-medicate with prescription drugs.  I am grateful beyond words not to have that genetic disability.  Nothing has ever come close to my NDEs.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would have seriously considered suicide had I not had the experience.  At the time I was injured, I was in a failing marriage and a very unhappy young woman.  The marriage dissolved a few years later.  It would have anyway; the wreck and injury just brought the end sooner.  Life right now is difficult and painful.  Without the knowledge of the garden, I would have no hope at all.  Without hope we are all dead.

                                                                                         Experience Description 372                         Background Information:   
    
                           					Date NDE Occurred:	  06/18/74          again about 20 years later

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Event #1 - No  Event #2 - Yes.  I felt myself 'squirt' out between my eyes and was instantly in another place entirely different from the physical my body was in.  I looked the same but was not disabled, was in perfect health, sound mind.  The same me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nature sounds like birds and bubbling fountains, streams.  I remember the wind in the trees made music.  The leaves of the trees, especially the Mimosa like trees, had the most delicate sounds - the trees had glowing life in their branches and leaves; like light through a crystal prism.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I almost got through the enclosure I described above, but not all the way in.  But when my time to die comes, I will be so happy to return there.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My angel guide Ivy was with me again as in Event #1.  There were two male energies 'guarding' the gate through the wall where the garden was on the other side.  They were unarmed 'sergeants - at - arms', type beings.

The experience included:       Light

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The garden and the polished marble pavillion-type area where I first arrived.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt wonder at where I was and what I saw.  I also felt curiousity to see beyond the great wall in front of me.  When the door opened just enough to allow my head and shoulders inside for a peek, the beauty I saw was magnetic.  When I was pulled away and the doorway closed, I experienced disappointment.  I tried to convince them that I needed just a little more time there, but was told it was not my time and to see more would have made me want to stay.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The wall around the garden.  It went both to the left and the right as far as I could see, to the horizon.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Event #1 The angel gave me the choice to go or stay, it was up to me.  She gave me that choice on two different visits, about 24 hours apart.  I distinctly recall telling her I had decided to stay as there was a reason for me to be here.  I wanted to get it right this time.

  Event #2 That it was not my time to stay, I had to return but didn't want to.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I have had many surgeries since then with the usual chemicals.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       A few days ago I recalled the only negative experience I had.  Now that I have been back to your site, I understand why I would need to remember that event.

  I was about two weeks post the spinal cord injury and near death.  I was about to have reconstructive surgery on my right forearm which had been badly damaged.  My anestheitist explained I would have good dreams and I expected to.  But I had the most chilling psychic experience I've ever known.  I remember I was being pursued by demonic little beings, about knee high.  I was running from them and screaming in terror, unable to outdistance them.  There were so many of them, at least twenty. I could see in my quick backward glances.    They could catch up to me off and on and would bite the backs of my bare calves and thighs with beak-like mouths.  They were humanoid in structure, but dark with beetle-like shell bodies and large parakeet-like mouths.  When I was finally able to awaken and stay awake, I knew I had been in the presence of evil, and NEVER EVER wanted to live my life in any way that could cause me to be in contact with them again.  The pain of their bites was horrific, the blood ran down my legs and I could feel it all.  I thought it was real until I finally awakened.  I was so grateful to be out of that place.  I have never experienced anything like them since, and rarely remember this event.  But it did happen just as surely as did the other two events.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How would we value our experience?  Would we erase it if we could?  Would we experience it again if we could?  Why do we think we had the experience?  					

  	Experience Description 314  					  				    				  Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 18, 1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I was riding alone on a motorcycle when a delivery truck in the lane to my left, made a right turn across my lane of travel literally running over the top of me and my motorcycle.  We were in town and traveling at a low rate of speed, about 20 mph.  At th  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Yes with #1, No with #2

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I didn't sense being separate from my body.  I could look at my body in these experiences

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       #1 During surgery so I was unconscious.  Twice more in hospital while in Intensive Care, but I was on pain med at that time.    #2 I was quite conscious and here at home with a screaming migraine.  I had suffered with it all day.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the sense that there was no time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw an angel on both occasions.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was the intense colors of the setting sun.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Too much to write.  I would be happy to talk about it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, and the strongest need to hurry on my way to reach the source of that love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was given the option to go or stay on two separate occasions in Intensive Care immediately following the emergency surgery.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Raised in a Conservative Baptist Church

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Big change!  I believe that spiritually speaking, "all roads lead home (to God/the Universe, however one percieves divinity).  Live is a process of returning to the All-That-Is of which we are a part and to which we will return, maybe many times.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am much more open to all facets of spirituality.  Much more accepting of people, who they are and where they are on their life's path.  I love life more than people can understand.  I am in a wheelchair with numerous health problems, multiple surgeries and yet I have a deep love of life.  And at the same time I look forward to when it is my time to return 'home'.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can use my hands to scan a person's body for illness or injury.  I don't touch the person, but holding my hand a few inches above their body I can detect illness.  Sometimes I have dreams that give me fore knowledge of events that happen later.  I can often see into a person on an emotional level and understand what is happening in their heart or soul.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is no worst part.  The best part?  Hard to narrow it down, but probably the absolute certainty that when my body breathes its last, I will move into a different phase of life that is so much more alive than anyone can experience here in the physical.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only carefully with specific people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I hate the feeling drugs cause, feeling spacey and out of control is not my idea of a good time.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was the beginning of many changs in my life, many of them difficult and painful.  Divorce, health problems have been heart breaking.  BUT, I knew, and know now,that through every minute of my life I am not alone.  The Divine and I are inseparable and yet I am a separate personality unto myself.  I love my life and live it to the most I can.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This is a comprehensive set of questions.  Somehow you could ask for input from significant others.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dustine_s_nde.html