{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. Thomas J NDE 29","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. Thomas J NDE 29  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. Thomas J NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1502 Dr. Thomas J NDE 29  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Events surrounding NDE:

First week of College walking beside a road which ran through the campus. Returning my date to the dorm, which was only fifty yards from the college hall. The concrete road had a low gravel soft shoulder. A young man was teaching his girlfriend how to drive. She got one of her wheels caught in the gravel and struck me at fifty-plus miles per hour from behind. I never saw it coming. I was propelled ten feet up and thirty feet down the road, she struck a second student before stopping. I left my body, was up above the trees over the accident, and could see the whole scene. I was chalked off on the side of the road while they attended to the other student.

  					Describe in detail the events (in order) that happened:

1. Realizing I was above the scene.

2. Watching the rescuer's scurry to help the other student.

3. Seeing them trip when they tried to remove my body.

4. Returning to my body and experiencing the pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept. 17, 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         I was in cardiac arrest due to the shock and trauma. There were multiple severe fractures and concussion. I had been declared dead.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I never saw myself but everything appeared normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Complete clarity. I felt wonderful and totally free from pain. I did feel a bit puzzled as to why I was looking down on the scene. I saw an Ambulance Crew come to remove my body when one attendant tripped and kicked me in the side. This caused me to go back to my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only the sounds of the students and rescuers all else was peace.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I could feel the presence above and behind me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy and wonder. Puzzled.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer fear physical death.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, seeing the other side. Worst, returning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most listen and don't comment.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_j_nde.html