{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1duane_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Duane G NDE 6833","mylang":"de"}
          	        Duane G NDE 6833  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Duane G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3409 Duane G NDE 6833  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Forty years ago I experienced something no one could explain. When I was thirteen, I severed an artery in my upper right arm. Blood was squirting everywhere. I was about a city block away from home so I started walking, but with every step, I felt myself getting weaker and weaker. By the time I got home, I was drained. When I sat on the stoop of our front porch, I wasn't sitting anymore. I was standing, watching myself. I saw my mother and my sisters are running out of the house screaming and gathering all around me. I saw this car pull up and then them picking me up and carrying me to the car. All the while this woman's voice behind me was saying, 'it's going to be alright.' I found myself being whizzed away and I was standing at the hospital. I saw them rolling a wheelchair out from the hospital and putting me in it. Rolling me inside and putting me on a table then cutting my clothes off me. The last thing I remember is her voice saying it's going to be alright. Then I woke up. Everybody was standing around me at the hospital like it was a dream. I have never forgotten the voice.

Ever since I came into possession of a particular cane, I've been having some pretty wild dreams. I found myself dreaming I was reliving events in time and one night I found myself in outer space looking down at the Earth. When I looked around, I saw the twelve constellations being drawn right in front of me starting with the water bearer. When it came around to the constellation Capricorn there was a Big Eye staring at me. I couldn't look away, I was drawn into it. And in a flash of Light I was looking down at our Galaxy with twelve suns. Another star was circling those twelve Suns. I couldn't take my eyes off the Light in the center and in a flash I was looking down at twelve Galaxies. Then another flash and I was looking at twelve Universes and then twelve Mega verses. It kept flashing until my mind couldn't take anymore and I found myself surrounded by nothing but Pure Light. Then puff, I found myself falling back to Earth with that same woman's voice telling me a story something like this:

Who 'I am'

The Eye of Seal the First Seven Days of Time.

I created the Sun and I named the first day 'Sunday.'

I created the Moon and I named the second day 'Monday.'

I created the Two (He and She) from the dust of this Earth, and I named the third day 'Tuesday.'

I created the Four Winds and I named the fourth day 'Wednesday.'

I created Water and I named the fifth day 'Thursday.'

I created Fire and I named the sixth day 'Friday.'

And I created 'Saturday' as the seventh day, for you to sat, rest, and prepare.

The Archer the Covenant made with Man.

I gave Itim (Adam) a piece of the Tree as the Covenant I made with Man, using it to bring peace to a wild and savage land.

The Scorpion the Death of Man

I sent the scorpion on the seventh day to give him rest,

For six thousand years he did his best.

The Scales the Judgment of Man

I weighed his heart against a feather,

It floated in the air like a bird in good weather.

The Virgin the Resurrection and Conception of Man

I sent the Virgin Lily to wake him from his dead-like sleep,

To give her a child, a soul to keep.

The Lion A New King Rebirth of Man

I gave you Kings to rule this land

But you treated your brother like less than a man.

The Crab the Great Flood

I sent the Waters so that you may start again

With Peace and Love as a new best friend.

The Twins the Covenant Broken by Man

I gave you Gen and Isis in the night sky

But you started killing each other, do you know why?

The Bull the Slaves in Egypt

I gave you all of Africa for you to be free

But you turned your children into slaves and forgot about the Tree

The Ram Freed by Moses

I sent Moses to get the Tree and set things right

Who freed the children in the middle of the night

The Two-Fish Redeemed by Jesus

I sent you Jesus who also carried the same Tree

But you changed his story now he is me

The Water Bearer Enlightened by the Stars

I told Itim (Adam) to write this story in the night sky

So that it would stay there as the Centuries go by

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Apr. 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Life looks different.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I still am.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I saw the past, present, and future in a flash of Light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was blinded.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard her clearly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     If you call a flash of light the tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw an illuminated voice.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a point of no matter where nothing matters, not even the Flesh.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt free!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood infinity.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw the coming of a second sun.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   She wouldn't let me go.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Every Sunday we were in Church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Snakes can't talk and no one can come back from the dead after three days.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   www.itshelbydunn.com  Histrology

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The Stars tell a different story

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Mother Nature provides for all my needs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   She said I am your Mother.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Ever Living Light  Itim (Adam) & Yve (Eve)  A Virgin Called Lily  Gen & Isis  Princess Kali  Joseph  Moses  Jesus   Other faces I do not know,like the keeper of the secret who don't want to be known

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     All my inner me's but Past, Present & Future

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt connected to every man woman and child that had touch the cane

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     She said man own consciousness will be his Judge,the heart holds the truth

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are Earthling created from the dust the this Planet and we will linger here as long as Mother Earth is alive. We are her Children

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is a Conscious after Death

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     She is Returning

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Challenging all Lies is Refreshing

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     A Ever Living Light of Love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     There is an inner Good that we must balance with this Greater outer Good.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I feel I am the alien. People here do wrong because it is wrong. We are supposed to do the right thing because it's the right thing to do.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I saw too much.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I am changed

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     All things are up to interpretation.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Her Voice is real to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My children. They just listen to me and know I am different. I don't use the word God. I say creator.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Chariots of the gods.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     We are not alone.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Witnessing other people's near death experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The Truth is the Light, and the Light is my Creator.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1duane_g_nde.html