{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dr_ghalabi_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. M. Ghalabi NDE 16010","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. M. Ghalabi NDE 16010  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. M. Ghalabi NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1086  Dr. M. Ghalabi NDE  16010  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Abstract from the book ‘Sorry that Death refused me!’

By Dr. M. Ghalabi

I feel It is a duty to tell the people my story. It is real, and I feel it contains lots of lessons and deep meanings. I don’t aim to let this article be teaching a message, because I don’t know much religious information outside of what I’ve studied to improve my own knowledge. I always feel keen toward spiritual articles, especially those that concern the miracles of the Qur'an and the Bible, or other book, which concern the universe and physical phenomena. 

The events of the experience are not special or rare. There are many experiences going on in the same way. As I see it, it happened to be and I have to tell people who are interested. I feel there is a connection between the events of my experience and the entity of the universe. Especially considering my specialization of space mechanical engineering, and my knowledge of parapsychology.

I expect my writing in this article will have a scientific touch! 

Time and Place of Experience:

This experience happened in the mid of eighties of the last century, in a hospital in Europe, during a surgical operation in my face (a nose deviation). 

Steps of events:

One: The operation began, and the anesthesia failed.

Two: My body was totally paralyzed from the anesthesia. At the same time, I was feeling very severe and continuous pain. I became semi-conscious.

Three: Every sensation became pain.

Four: The pain continued, which caused my heart to stop pumping blood. I had no pulse and wasn’t breathing for about three minutes. I was clinically dead.

Five: I began to see everything that had happened in my life since I was baby in my mother’s womb. It all happened so fast! Every minute and minor detailed replayed through my mind from start to finish. Somehow, I was able to follow all of these rapid and intense events at once. 

Six: I was pulled from my body and floated up through the roof of the hospital. I kept going up at incredible speed. As I reached space, the speed began to slow. 

Seven: I came to know that there is a supreme reality, and that this reality was a universal entity, which spanned the seen and unseen universes. 

Eight: I entered a dark cylinder in space that seemed like a tunnel. 

Nine: White ghosts appeared around me, including the ghost of my mother, who died when I was five. They were reaching out their hands toward the center of the tunnel. Some tried to touch me. I saw a light at the end of the tunnel. 

Ten: Coming out of the tunnel, I was about to leave our universe. 

Eleven: An unknown voice demanded that I was to travel faster. Faster, even, than the speed of light. 

Twelve: While I was going faster and faster, I noticed the things around me. I was trying to see them through the eyes of a scientist.

Thirteen: I was heading toward a speed that has no actual limit. 

Fourteen: I was told that God had decided that I had to go back to my ‘container.’ Despite the pain. 

Fifteen: I landed on an alabaster planet and was surrounded by huge beings. I saw the most beautiful creation of almighty God. It was love. Love meant for all people without exception. 

Sixteen: I was ordered to go back. I was told it was not yet my time that I had to go back to where I came from. I returned to life, sad, and in pain

Background Information:

Gender:    Male
.

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dr_ghalabi_nde.html