{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dr_kumar_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. H.M.S. Kumar NDE 850","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. H.M.S. Kumar NDE 850  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. H.M.S. Kumar NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						338  Dr. H.M.S. Kumar NDE  850  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

During a school holiday, my class teacher asked me to make an electric call bell using just a steel cup, nail and a copper wire with armature. I designed and prepared one, which I tested several times, to ensure if it functioned or not because I had to take this device to my school next day for a small exhibition arranged there. At around 3:30 pm I was alone in my room in a big farmhouse. My father and mother were in the back yard and doing some work. I wanted to try my call bell.


I accidentally caught a live electric wire while experimenting on this prototype of a self-made call-bell. As the cable was too long, the voltage was 220V, and since I was holding the live wire in both hands, I suffered from electric shock for a sufficiently long time. Initially, I experienced a great pain and all that any shock victim would experience. As no one was there to rescue me for some time, slowly my pain ceased and I started raising from my body and started to float above.


I could see the letters written on the roof tiles from very near, almost a few inches. Each letter appeared very big to me. It was a wonderful, painless state and very cool and yet full of emotions. I had perfect crystal clear consciousness.  I could see my body lying on the floor head down and still holding the wire. I rose to about ten feet off the ground and I stopped hovering near the roof tiles. I was calling for help but no one was there. After some time I noticed my dad coming from the other end of the house, I could see him through the walls, and he was coming very slowly as he was not aware of the accident. I tried to call my dad very loud but he could not hear me even though he arrived near. He was chewing tobacco and murmuring something then (it was his habit). It was like as if I was in a dream.


But naturally when he reached the spot, he saw me (my body) lying on the ground. Without knowing that I am holding the live wire, he held me tight and tried to lift me up. Suddenly I experienced a great pain and I fell back into my body. I went into an unconscious state for at least ten minutes later and when I woke up my dad and mom were sitting near me. First word I uttered after seeing them was, 'Mom I experienced today how one dies,' but my parents were horrified.  They took me to a doctor to explain to him that I might have gone insane due to electric shock. Whenever I started talking about my experience, they discouraged me and avoided the conversation, thinking that it may adversely affect my studies. Later my mom told me that she came and rescued both me and my dad by switching off the mains; but I never saw her coming to rescue me as I could only see my dad.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1978

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  I accidentally met with  a powerful electric shock which almost killed me  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had a similar body but floating and I was wearing the same shirt and shorts. I was the same boy as that of my body then.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Perfect and crystal clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   Seeing through walls and floating.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Everything was normal.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I could see my dad through the walls as he was slowly approaching from the other side of the house.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     But the total experience was very beautiful and peaceful, only until I was emotional and anxious to save myself.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   I am a hindu and definetly I had a preconceived notion on death and life after death as explained in our religion. However, my experience has been altogether different and strange. I experienced the process of death which I remember very clear.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Hindu, moderate believer

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Regarding death.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst part was pain associated in the early few minutes of electric shock.  Best part was the rising of myself from my body, which was very peaceful, cool and painless state. It was like an airplane taking off from the runway.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    But only a few, as few believe such experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dr_kumar_nde.html