{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rick_u_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. Rick U NDE 7880","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. Rick U NDE 7880  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. Rick U NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4079 Dr. Rick U NDE 7880  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a heart attack and died five times within 60 minutes, causing brain anoxia. I was in a coma for four days and placed under a cool thermal blanket to preserve brain neurons.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack.  CPR given. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not at all

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Much more aware of this remarkable experience of heaven.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing remained the same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Grandfather who was deceased since 1987.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light of Jesus.  It was beautiful golden blue sky, a beautiful green grassy hill that opened up to an endless valley with a 'Bethlehem-like' scene that went on as far as the eye could see.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I found myself climbing up a beautiful, green grassy hill under a brilliant golden blue sky that opened onto an ancient village.  The village had hundreds to thousands of people doing different jobs like teaching, caring for animals, caring for children, preaching, cleaning and many other common jobs. I died five distinct and different times and felt a deep sense of loss from leaving this place.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peacefulness and the feeling of not wanting to leave.  I was disappointed when I came back to consciousness feeling a profound sense of loss.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I have been an active Christian for 34 years.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     That heaven is real and eternal life is absolute if only we believe the Living Jesus.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Totally serving our God every day of my life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard and saw my grandfather.  There were sounds of cattle, sheep, and donkeys.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I sensed the presence of Jesus as a bright light in the left side of the valley.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I realized that we keep our earthly form not a spiritual or angelic form.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I am not sure exactly what this question is asking

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There is no question that I was in the presence of Jesus and therefore, God. Only God the creator could offer such a beautiful home.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     That we must find favor with God on our own and that God wants us to come to him willingly.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Because I saw my grandfather who had passed over several years ago. I knew this must be heaven and my eternal home.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I love my wife, 3 daughters, and 11 grandchildren more than I can imagine. I want to grow old to see them marry and have children, but I would give it all up tomorrow to live in His presence.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I loved my wife even more from heaven and when I came back to her, I now love her much more. Only God, through his son Jesus, has absolute love for us: his children. I never felt greater and more accepting love than when I was in His presence.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I was sent back from five NDE experiences for a reason and that is to live out the rest of my life only to serve Him. Because of my experience with NDE, I retired this year to give my life to others by writing a book to enlighten others that as the movie declared 'God Is Not Dead.' As a neuroscientist with brain anoxia, specializing in brain trauma I plan to devote the rest of my life in helping our veterans with post-traumatic head injuries.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much less critical of others and less judgmental.  I am much more willing to share my financial resources, and more importantly, my time helping others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was not conscious of my earthly surroundings.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I am blessed with an excellent memory. I recall most of my life experience with exacting detail, much to my dear wife's consternation.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all so significant that it is hard to choose one part from another.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my wife, my pastor, and my son-in-law who is a Christian surgeon who is a bit skeptical about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was aware of a few books and movies about NDE but had not read any experience or watched any movies.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still remember, with detail, about my NDE experience. I know I had a rare privilege of getting a glimpse of heaven.  I can't wait to go back. I will live the rest of life serving our God.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I saw heaven five distinct times corresponding with the five times I was shocked back to this world. When I told my wife I saw Heaven five times, she was startled because she was present the entire time the paramedics tried save me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The five times I clinically died each time, I felt the beautiful and gentle hand on my forehead  pushing me so very gently down a lush grassy hill and away from the glorious valley of Heaven. I did not wish to leave and that feeling of longing to be back fills my thoughts, yet today. I wanted to stay because I never felt that kind of love and total acceptance here on earth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       To encourage those who are unsure about sharing our remarkable journey to Heaven. Heaven is real and our God is real.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rick_u_nde.html