{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1martina_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. Martina F Probable NDE 9728","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. Martina F Probable NDE 9728  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. Martina F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5254 Dr. Martina F Probable NDE 9728  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    June 22, 2018:  

  I went home from jogging and took off my shoes in the corridor. Suddenly I felt dizzy and thought, 'If I'm not lying down I will fall down.'  

  After an undefined time, I woke up from a noise that was similar to an audio tape when it was running too fast. But I knew that this noise was inside of myself. I was lying in wetness. The noise subsided and I could then register the outside noises again. I discovered that the wetness was blood and that I broke my nose. A few days later I was diagnosed with a ventricular tachycardia and a defibrillator was implanted.  

  July 31, 2018:  

  I had just been released from the hospital and was allowed to exercise again. I was biking and felt free and happy. About 30 seconds later, I felt dizziness. I could hear my brakes and then everything went blank.  

I woke up to a place where everything was pleasant, joyful, and beautiful. I didn't want to leave there. After an undefined time, somebody woke me from this place of indescribable peace and well-being. I wanted to remain in this peace. And I was quite annoyed about the first-respondent because she tried to wake me up. 

I abruptly got back into my body and I realized that I had experienced another arrhythmia. Afterwards, it showed that the defibrillator had released.  

  After this I fell down twice more, once in 2018 and once in 2020 but there nothing else happened except I felt fear. According to the defibrillator those episodes lasted at most only 13 seconds.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 6/22/2018 and 7/31/2018  
  
NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Heart attack.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death     
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard a strange noise.  I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than norma.   Darkness  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I can't evaluate this.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My sight was narrowed.  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    With the first syncope, hearing was clearly sharpened, with the second one there was no influence.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       During the second syncope there was at first fear, then peace.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  The first-responder person upset when she woke me. I didn't want to come back but here, she became progressively louder.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Have left the church in the meantime, not because of religious reasons; but because of the cases of sexual abuse in the catholic church in Germany  
  
Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I do not believe that the experience changed my values and convictions. It was because of the ventricular tachycardia that led to the experience, that changed my beliefs.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            I have never been a fearful person before the experience. The experience didn't scare me but the continuing arrhythmia has scared me each time it happened. There is fear before the moment of unconsciousness because it is so life-threatening and scary. I have experienced thise four times already. I listen more to my body and what I really want.  I try to live accordingly, not as adapted as before. Even here it's not the experience that tipped the balance but the disease. The disease is probably an isolated cardiological sarcoidosis.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There have been so many emotions that I can't describe.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This enormous peace and the indescribable well-being.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm an anesthetist and a doctor of intensive care, have had lots of experience with death in the past. This knowledge didn't have an influence on my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martina_f_probable_nde.html