{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dove_nde.html","mytitle":"Dove NDE 2381","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dove NDE 2381  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dove NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						703  Dove NDE  2381  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was training a horse and took a fall while jumping a creek and only remember falling but not landing. I woke in darkness and saw about fifteen feet away from me a circle of beautiful light with seven figures that I could not make out. They seemed to know me and did not talk to me but only to each other and without words. The one in the middle made the final decision that I was to go back and not come into there or enter the light. I consciously wanted to go there and begged with my mind to please take me. The light was glorious! I fought coming back. As I did so it was with lightning bolt crashes of painful light, I fought it and then it would go all black, then the lightning bolt of a little reality, bit by bit repeatedly. It was PAINFUL coming back and I fought it the whole time to no avail. I saw the trees down the lane from bird's-eye view and then quickly back into the spot where I lay. The people were pounding on my chest and breathing in my mouth and a lady was screaming to call an ambulance. NO ONE wanted to hear about my experience and still today, people don't. They think I'm crazy to tell such a story!!! Oh well! 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 1974  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I had a riding accident and was unconscious but I did come around within minutes.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could hear talking with only minds, no words. My feelings were so purely wonderful and there was no remorse to leave everything and everyone I loved behind.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the light and hearing what the beings had to say to each other about if I stayed or went back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I don't know what you mean.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, this sounds silly but I could only see as good as I would if my glasses were off. When I woke up, they were lost! I dream in good vision by the way.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear thoughts as they didn't talk in words.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was in a void of blackness and the circle of light was about fifteen feet in diameter like a hole in a ceiling. There was a railing around the hole where the light was.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Seven beings were standing around the opening of this circular opening. They seemed familiar but I can't really say. What was communicated was one thing for sure, it was not my time that 'I had something else to do.' At times, I felt that the something else was to do with a war of some type. The memories I have that I struggle with seem to be so strange and I dismissed them for so long because I never thought that I would be dealing with a war, I live in the USA! And now, I think a little bit more about it. That part is too strange to verbalize to anyone and I really only hinted at some things to my husband but no one else. People just can't take that.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was awesome. It was like some sort of extreme wonderful feeling and of purity and only feelings of goodness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I came back as if I were flying back to my body ...a birds eye view.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and bliss and then desperate feelings of not wanting to go back.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was raised Catholic but lived on a farm at the time of the accident and did not really attend church very much.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe that we will all go through this. I have more 'purpose.' I'm on a path, a journey.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that we will all go through this. I have more 'purpose.' I'm on a path, a journey.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That is the part that I can't clearly explain. It had to do with something that I had to do. Some connections to a war situation.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Well, I don't see heaven like I used to! No wings! No halos! I'm not afraid because it was wonderful!  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have them quite often but I don't discuss them. A very strange occurrence happened this month!!! I would have to tell you later, I don't have time right now but it involved me being somewhat of a 'vehicle' of communication from a person who died. I felt that it was a contact to someone else. All that I could say was ' angels talk to us in many ways!' after the whole thing unfolded.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire thing!!! But, I had to remember that I didn't want to return, I was a bit surprised at that! The beings and what they discussed. The LIGHT!!!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first told some of it to the folks on the scene, they said, 'Lay down kid, you saw us!' They were country folks and back then, you just didn't have this kind of discussion! I told my mom and dad and they said I had better not tell people, they would think I was nuts, and they LAUGHED at me. It was interesting that one day much later I was at their house watching TV with them, a commercial came on about NDEs, and I MADE them watch it with me even though they didn't want to. I asked them, 'How could some of these people have the same sort of thing that I told you that I had????!' They had to think about that.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wrote a poem about it, a humorous one. People can deal with hearing about it that way. Since I am now older I really don't give a shit if people think I am making it up or that I am NUTS, I have shared it anyway. I just tell them, believe it or not! I don't have to wonder if it's true!  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If you come up with any then give me an email! Thanks!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dove_nde.html