{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1douglas_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Douglas H NDEs 6014","mylang":"de"}
          	        Douglas H NDEs 6014  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Douglas H NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			2837 Douglas H NDEs 6014  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first time, I fell three stories and had some serious head injuries. While I was being treated in the hospital, I remember looking down and seeing the doctor and nurses working on me. Then I became aware of something like a tunnel, and I remember feeling drawn toward it. I could see a small light at the end of the tunnel, and as I moved toward it, it seemed to get bigger. It looked just like a tunnel opening. As I entered the light, it felt like I became a part of it. The light felt like it passed right though my body, and when it did, it gave me such a good, calm feeling.  I woke up in the hospital. I talked to the doctor later and described the number of nurses, their hair color, and where they had been standing around the table, I was on. I told him what the nurses said and what he said back to them.

The second time, I was 36 and had been involved in a construction accident. I remember seeing the tunnel and heading for it, but this time, as I got to the light, I heard voices. I recognized them as people I knew that had died. I couldn't see any faces. I only remember hearing them.  (When I had had my first accident, I hadn't known any people that had died yet.)  Again, I woke up in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/69    8/8/86

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Both times were due to bad accidents.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND unpleasant and/or frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I don't know whether if I had looked around, I would have been able to see what was going on behind me. Once I entered the light, all I could see was the light.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't think there was ever a certain time of more alertness than other times. When I got to the light and it passed though me, I felt the best feeling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I entered the light. I didn't see anything other than the light. I only heard things, and voices.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I entered the light, it seemed to be filled with voices.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When you first enter the tunnel, it is dark with a small light at the end. As you get closer to the light, it gets bigger.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Those friends of mine who had died before.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is a very bright light that seems to absorb you into it when you reach it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     At the end of the tunnel, it seems you become part of a very bright light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The first time I was nervous about what was going on. The second time, I just headed straight for the light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I am not a religious person then or now but i do know we go somewhere after death

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I,ve never believe in a god who came to earth and made everything we see today.But i do not believe when we die we do not live on.I know now why everything heads to the lights

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know what we go to after this life, but I don't know as what.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   When I entered the light, I become part of it.  It seems that so does everyone else who has gone on before.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   the second time i talked to people who had died before

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     you become part of the light and in it there are other voices

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I now seem to know that life goes on. I don't know about purpose. Maybe it's just so you can be in the light with your friends that have gone on before you. That's as far as I got before I had to come back.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I became part of the light and heard voices I knew

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I don't know if i remember it any more than pass events that i have seen

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After my first accident, I didn't talk about it, but after my second I told everyone.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The first time I didn't understand what was going on, but after the second time I knew what goes on.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   What happened after my second accident was very much like what happened after the first one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1douglas_h_nde.html