{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dorothy_t_ndes.html","mytitle":"Dorothy T NDEs 4517","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dorothy T NDEs 4517  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dorothy T NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			2277 Dorothy T NDEs 4517  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first time I do not remember well: at six I thought it quite normal to be able to talk to God (I also talked to stars of various colors). So meeting 'God' was not surprising to me. Being rejected hurt a lot.

The second time, like the first, I found myself in a tunnel of sorts. It was made up of light. If I looked directly up I could see that the light was made of many, many colors, (at age 6, I didn't know about spectrums) but the light ahead and around me was white, beyond white, beyond anything that can be described as white. I remember thinking 'I'm back' and feeling relief.

Both times, there was a figure at the end of the tunnel, male in 'feel' but non-distinguishable in features. The intensity of emotion was of overwhelming love, knowledge and belonging. Both times, I was told, by name I think, that I had to go back and that I could not come now. The 'voice' was a beautiful voice, calm and loving but, like the light, it seemed to come from both within and without and seemed to be and yet not be at the same time.

I remember, the second time, begging to be allowed to follow beyond the tunnel and I remember the disappointment at, once again, being turned back. Upon accepting the rejection, I saw myself upon the bed, saw the white coats, and heard the conversation. (One nurse was crying). And then I was back and felt a deep sadness and acceptance.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'twice: once in 1960, once in 1976'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'first time through blood loss  second time fifth day of coma'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   At age six I had hemorrhaged (no known reason) and by the time I was hospitalized has lost consciousness and most of my blood.  At age 23, I was in a coma (no known reason). Both times my parents were told that I would not survive.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know. Perhaps at the beginning. But it was all so timeless.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know whether or not thoughts sped up as there was no thought, there was no awareness. There was just being. Longing and joy. My senses were acute to the feeling of light and love but there was no physical sense in the normal touch, taste, smell etc. category.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     At the end of the tunnel of light with even brighter light behind them so I couldn't make out details. It seemed to be male, human in shape, and emitted a benevolence, love, wisdom and calm authority. The voice was firm, but gentle when it told me I had to return.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense and deep joy and yet calmness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian/protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Because of my experience I spent a good deal of my childhood relating to nature, and reasons etc. By the time I was in my teens, I extended my search for truth to the religions of the world reading everything I could on anything I could. As a result, I have no single tie to any single tenet.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   no organized religion: but faith never the less

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Because of my experience I spent a good deal of my childhood relating to nature, and reasons etc. By the time I was in my teens, I extended my search for truth to the religions of the world reading everything I could on anything I could. As a result, I have no single tie to any single tenet.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As stated earlier, I am less concerned with earthly 'happiness' and more tolerant of others. My feelings of 'self' are small. I helped raise a boy and a girl, never having felt the need to 'own' them. They are wonderful individuals in every respect.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Yes I can describe the experiences but no, I can't make you understand.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I just 'know' things sometimes and I can sometimes 'make things happen' by just thinking about them. This takes a great deal of energy, however, and I'm always afraid of turning the gift into a parlor game so I don't allow it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am a different person because of these experiences. Although still skeptical of many, many things people claim, it is the people I question - not the truths behind them. I am more tolerant of others and less 'tied' to earthly concerns.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    The first time, when I was little, I told my family who just patted me on the head and murmured platitudes: the second time I knew people wouldn't believe me so told very few people. Most pretended, I think, to believe me although were quick to change the subject.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   No the first time, yes the second (because of the first). Hadn't read anything, or talked to anyone about it though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I cannot explain.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The calmness still lives within me. The longing still is there. The understanding is still there. Again I cannot explain.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dorothy_t_ndes.html