{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1doug_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Doug W NDE 4203","mylang":"de"}
          	        Doug W NDE 4203  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Doug W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2047 Doug W NDE 4203  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself totally lucid, clear in mind and thought, floating in blackness. It felt as if I was lying on my side, but without feeling any pressure on the side I was lying on. To get a point of reference I looked down at myself, and observed I was all in white. My skin was a translucent white. I was wearing an oversized robe. Thinking of my position it shifted on its own, and now I felt I was upright, and I started to look around. The darkness had depth; it felt like the void went on to infinity. I was comfortable, and realized something had happened during the surgery, and I must had died. I got excited, because I was happy that my passing was painless. I was getting anxious to move on, and was wondering, and talking to myself when someone was coming to get me. I waited, and waited, time seemed to come to a standstill. I began to call out, if anyone was out there. No response, and became angry, and feeling abandoned, and cursed. Next thing I see is a room with people running all around me doing different things to my body.

I realized I was back in the hospital, back in the awareness of my body still no pain, and I wasn't breathing. This went on for at least five minutes, and I was amazed that no one noticed I was awake and looking around. I realized later that I might have been looking through my eyelids. Anyway, they began to roll my body on its back, and started to put tubes down my throat, and this is when I lost consciousness again. I later woke up on a respirator, stuck on that for a week or more, and developed a fever. Until about a month later, my mind started to work overtime, on the NDE. I wanted to do more exploring in that state again. Re-experience it, and move beyond that experience. I also had many unanswered questions. Why did I end up in a void? If there is a hell, is that where I was destined for? If so, why? Why didn't anyone come get me or see me? I think for the first time I found a real passion to pursue. It took ten years before the answers started to be revealed to me through Out Of Body experiences I started to have. The journey still continues.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Complications from surgery. Due to collapsed throat, pressure reversed in my lungs causing them to fill up with blood causing me to drown in my own blood. I was in convulsions, so they had to paralyze my body to get me on the respirator. I would have died if they did not do this.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt Happy, anger, anxious, and curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'No spirituality, Do not believe in organized religion'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I meditate, have a nightly ritual of intention of out of body exploration, and experience different religions as they come into my life.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Very spiritual. Take part in different religions, but not committed in any way. Just to experience.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I meditate, have a nightly ritual of intention of out of body exploration, and experience different religions as they come into my life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes With time I learned about my faults, and to overcome most of them, improving my relationships with people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The experience is not hard to communicate, the emotions are, but I found people's response negative.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Couple of months. Response was, 'Ya right.' Or negative.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Had to explore the possibility of re-experiencing my nonphysical form.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still on a spiritual path of nonphysical exploration.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   No medications, but through trance methods, dealing with sleep patterns I have had numerous experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Everything has a time and place.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doug_w_nde.html