{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1doug_e_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Doug E Possible NDE 5017","mylang":"de"}
          	        Doug E Possible NDE 5017  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Doug E Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2594 Doug E Possible NDE 5017  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was in the summer. I had a summer job in addition to playing in a rock band. I was a top student, but also had a bad nervous problem. My doctor prescribed valium. On this particular day, I was highly agitated and began popping valiums all day. I went to band practice where I consumed sloe gin with the bass player. After practice, I went home, undressed and went to bed. It seemed that a very short while after I closed my eyes that I felt a pain in my chest as if my heart stopped.

I found myself in the right corner near the ceiling of my room looking down at my body in the bed. The experience didn't scare me, but felt like this was as normal as getting up in the morning. I then found myself in what I guess you would describe as a tunnel. I say 'describe' because it had no walls, floor, or ceiling. Around me was darkness. I felt like I was on an escalator going forward at a somewhat faster pace. Ahead of me was a light that grew larger as I went forward. The entire time this was happening, I heard a sound I can only describe as a hum (later in life when I studied Buddhism, I found the 'om' chant remarkably close). I eventually came to an entrance to a universe (an opening) where I realized the brilliance of the light (light doesn't describe it) I was approaching was indeed made of innumerable lights stretching as far as I could see. At that point, I was told (no sound) that 'it was not my time'.

At that point, I was cast backwards at a high speed, felt my chest move and immediately got up. I then walked to my parent's room and told them I had seen God. That did not go well. For days after I felt that what I had experienced was real beyond belief. Not being able to talk about it, I retreated into myself, lost my summer job, and began my journey to explain it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    EXTREMELY AGGITATED. AT AGE 55 WAS DIAGNOSED AS MIXED TYPE BIPOLAR WITH THE USE OF ALCOHOL AS SELF-MEDICATION  Other OVERDOSE ON VALIUMS (PRESCRIBED) MIXED WITH ALCOHOL  The event occurred at my parents' home. I felt that my heart had stopped, and re-started when God sent me back. Physician lived two streets down and came to the house. I just remember him talking to me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I would say when I came to the entrance of heaven(?).

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say when I came to the entrance of heaven(?).

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed immeasurable.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The 'hum' I described above was constant. It sounded like a hive of bees working diligently.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As I described above it seemed like a tunnel, but without the walls, etc.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     The only thing was that I heard a voice telling me it wasn't my time. I did not see any other beings.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I described above, it first appeared as a small light, and then grew, and then in my vision it appeared to be trillions-plus of smaller lights. I felt that every small light was an individual. Every light was pure energy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     AN APT DESCRIPTION WOULD BE NIRVANA

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The entrance to heaven(?). I knew if I went in my earthly existence would cease.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   ROMAN CATHOLIC BACKGROUND / NON-ATTENDER

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The experience encouraged me to study other religions (specifically Buddhism) looking for a validation of the experience. I have however always been moderate in my views.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   NON-DENOMINATIONAL CHRISTIAN

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The experience encouraged me to study other religions (specifically Buddhism) looking for a validation of the experience. I have however always been moderate in my views.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there was another side and a God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value life much more. Every person has a soul and thus should be treated with respect and love. Life is precious.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Experience was other-worldly, words cannot describe the events that occurred.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To be able to experience heaven(?) was life-changing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The immediate reaction from my parents was that I had gone over the edge. I am very reluctant to share it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real in spite of other people's attitudes. Shortly after, I questioned myself, and attempted to run away from the experience. I however have always knew it was real, and to this day regard it as the most profound experience I have ever had.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After all these years I still know the experience was real. In my hippie days I experimented with many drugs and never closely approached what I experienced that day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am glad that people are more open to others who have the experience. Having no one to talk to makes you question your sanity.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire was well prepared.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doug_e_possible_nde.html