{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1douglas_c_nde_9389.html","mytitle":"Douglas C NDE 9389","mylang":"de"}
          	        Douglas C NDE 9389  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Douglas C NDE 9389  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5032 Douglas C NDE 9389  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My wife and I were getting ready to go out for the day, and I starting walking into the kitchen to get water to take my pill for hypertension and also supplements that I take. On the way to the kitchen, I got dizzy, so I decided to lay down in the sofa. When my wife came out dressed and ready to go I tried to get up, but I became dizzier so I laid back down.

  My wife took my blood pressure and it was 60 over 40, and at this time is when I also began to have moments un-conscientiousness. She brought me some water and took my blood pressure again and it was 105 over 75, but I kept feeling worse. My wife stated that she asked me several times if I wanted her to call the ambulance to which I did not response. By this point the loss of consciousness were becoming more frequent. I reached a point that I thought I was dying, and told my wife "I feel like I'm leaving." At this point she called the ambulance. From my recollection it seemed that from the moment I started feeling bad to when she called the ambulance it took about two hours, and I could not understand why it was taking that long but I couldn't really speak. In review of this part, it became clear that it only took ten minutes. It took the ambulance twenty minutes to get to me, and twenty minutes to get to the hospital, leaving only ten minutes for all of the above. My episode started around noon, and I was in the hospital by one.

  On the way to hospital, I was in and out, and remember seeing some cars, bushes, trees, but I could not control my body. My head was moving around with the movement of the ambulance. At this point I said to myself "So this is what death feels like," and said I'm ready to give up my spirit.

  As soon as I said that I entered a dark space, there was No emotion, time, up or down, but I did have my intellect. Very quickly after entering this darkness it developed a very dark brown hue. I don't know how but I exited this space and when I did I saw that the space I had exited was a rectangle with rounded edges, and to the left of it was a tunnel made of white clouds spinning clockwise. At this moment I said to myself "This is just like in the movies." I stared moving towards the tunnel, but I wasn't walking or flying, and I can't say I was floating... I could just move with a thought. As soon as started moving towards the tunnel a black transparent circular mass appeared at the entrance to the tunnel, and it started to move towards me. The edges of the cloud became a more pronounced black and the tunnel a little darker. I could sense it's power, and the size of was HUGE. The only way I can equate it is seeing yourself in front of a high rise and it coming directly at you. I said to myself "What is this?" and I leaned back to try to avoid it. This was the only time I felt fear. I was not scared of the presence, but because I thought to myself "What am I doing wrong that doesn't allow me to get into heaven?" I quickly thought to go back into the dark space for safety, and I did. I didn't move I just thought it and it happened. While in the space I started doing the lord's prayer, but I could also have multiple thoughts running at the same time. It dawned on me that here I was dying, and I all these grudges I was holding against people who had wronged me, and also those I had hurt unintentionally I had never tried to correct. At the same I said to myself "I'm not staying in this darkness," and exited. I could see the dark rectangle and to the left the tunnel. That is the last I remember.

  After that all I remember are flashes of people, and my wife or other's talking to me. My wife said that while I was going through the two hour seizure my body was catatonic, but that my head was swinging around wildly. She stated that I was asked if I was moving my head on purpose and I said No, and I do have a memory of this.

  From the onset of the episode to the time I regained consciousness was about ten and a half hours. 

  After regaining consciousness, I thought I was possibly dreaming. After sometimes I thought, well maybe this is my hell being poked and prodded for the rest of my life. This was because I had never been a patient at a hospital save for same day procedures or tests. I was born at home to a midwife. This train of thought continued all during the stay, but I would not mention it to anybody because I kept thinking to myself "If I say this they will definitely leave me in the hospital, because they will think I'm crazy." Even when they released me and I was sitting in the wheel chair and I could see my wife coming with the car, I kept looking to my right which is where the hospital door was expecting someone to come out and "NO, you have to go back in, because of..." 

  I was released on Tuesday afternoon, and it wasn't until I was home at night and going to bed that I thought "I'm back in the real world."  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4/23/22  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         They have not determined the root cause of the episode, but suspect that it was caused by a doubling  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I started having a seizure even though my vitals were stable. The seizure went on for two hours straight, but all subsequent scans showed No damage to the brain... which is medically impossible.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The difference was that I could have multiple thoughts at the same time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say during the darkness and tunnel experience. This memory is more real than any I've ever had.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was No time while I had the experience, but all other times during the episode seemed to be going much faster.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     About the same.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything, everything was in my head. There was No sounds at any time.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     A darkness that quickly developed a dark brown hue.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, I just was.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I was not allowed to enter the tunnel by the dark transparent entity.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I have been born again since I was seventeen, and have worked with many different religious organizations. I was raised a Catholic, but have also studied and worshiped with Southern Baptist, Evangelicals, Charismatic, and also Catholic since being born again. I have studied theology since I was nineteen as a layman by taking different courses with some of the previously mentioned groups, and also personally.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have to start attending any church more frequently.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I do not subscribe to any one religion. I my twenties I realized that religion is of man, and that there is No one system that captures the essence of God as a whole.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not expect to be stopped from entering the tunnel.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have to be more forgiving and understanding. Even when people take advantage of you to look the other way. This does not mean that you allow abuse, but even when you know they are taking advantage of your hospitality and kindness to look the other way.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A dark transparent circular mass that appeared in front of the tunnel.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I realized that I had to correct damaged relationships No matter how much these people have hurt you, and also ask for forgiveness of those you've hurt.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There was No information shared, only a realization to love and forgive more.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have to reach out and develop relationships with those I've cut out due to disagreements, or actions that may have hurt me. I also have to ask for forgiveness from those I've hurt, even if it was unintentional.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have begun to reach out to those I had cut out to resume a relationship. I realize that it has nothing to do with them. I have to try, and whether they accepted or not it's out of my hands.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was No time, space was different, there was No up or down. I knew these cardinal points by the position of my body, not because they existed. Movement is unexplainable, but it was so real.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It was more vivid and real than anything else I have experienced in life.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife and my aunt. Both are devout Christians and my aunt is a doctor.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read some of the Dr. Moody's books.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This was more real than anything else I've ever experienced.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This was more real than anything else I've ever experienced.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't understand the darkness. It had geographical shape, and it developed a dark brown hue.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Develop a camera that you can take with you. :)         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1douglas_c_nde_9389.html