{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dot_nde.html","mytitle":"Dot NDE 904","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dot NDE 904  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dot NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						372  Dot NDE  904  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In 1969, I was in a head-on collision and suffered broken bones and head trauma. A lady in white, like an angel, was with me a lot until I regained consciousness.


In 1987, during the birth of my son by a student doctor, my heart rate dropped to 46. I then went into a tunnel, like the universe. There are dark shadows and it smells like sin, evil, and awfulness. A light is in the distance, I'm getting closer. ‘Oh good, soon I will be safely out of this stench’, I say to myself. Then I'm in front of a table. A higher power is there in front of me. I am a light entity. Around me are more light entities. There are also dark entities around me. I don't like them.


A higher power is showing us a mission to do. We are looking in the table. It's Earth in there. The higher power shows us two ways to accomplish our mission: one of which he prefers us to do, the other one he isn't crazy about, but it seems that the main thing he is interested in is whether we will we do it the way he asks, yes or no. We have free choice. No one is looking at him, nor at the other spirits near him. They're different than us white and dark ones. Maybe they are what people refer to as angels. They aren't human spirits though, because we're all either white or dark. The white ones don't like the dark ones. Why is he giving them a chance to be with us on Earth too?


‘Ok, yes, I will do as you wish’. He sends two of the entities on his right with me. So many of the entities near me are telling me: ‘I will meet you here and there’. Some even said they will be my children in this life. So many spirits with me. We all love one another. Now, I meet people and I realize the reason I feel so comfortable with them is that I knew them over there. He shows us who we will be born to, inherited diseases, even our death. I can't remember why and what I'm supposed to be doing though.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    69' 87' 89' 2001'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentChildbirthSuicide attempt    Life threatening event, but not clinical death My unborn son and I were dying. One day he will remember it also. Now he doesn't.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In 1969, I stood over my body looking at it many times, until I regained consciousness. In 1987, I traveled in spirit. Also in 1989 and in 2001, I don't remember.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My body was unaware. My spirit was in charge.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No, nothing once I was in spirit. Until then, I was going into the tunnel, but could still hear the doctors in the operating room.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     We all know each other. We are all either a light spirit or a dark one, unless you are an angel, then you know us all, but you are different than us human spirits.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was shown how we get sent here and why, but I forgot why.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I didn't want to return to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   bible knowledge mostly, havent studied other religions books such  as islam etc..

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Babies remember also. Watch how a baby will look toward you, but not directly at you, smiling, frowning or crying. Who do you think they are seeing? They are seeing spirits with you. They're fresh and they remember why they're here.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   At one point, when the doctors were bringing me back, I entered a void area. It looked like the universe. The smell was horrible, evil. The light was too far ahead of me to get to and I became scared. I went into the tunnel and felt no pain when I heard the doctors say that my heart rate was 46 and get her to surgery.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Being aware that all humans are not good was one, and now I always notice spirits in pictures and on people’s cameras, some are demons also.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Sorry, I'm sleepy now. Thank you for reading what I have posted so far. Bye.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dot_nde.html