{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donnie_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Donnie H NDE 21613","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donnie H NDE 21613  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donnie H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1133  Donnie H NDE  21613  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was little at the time, I think 9 or 10, but I could have been younger. I was playing at friend's house, just behind my own house. In the yard was a semi-truck.  The other kids and I were running around and jumping off the truck. I don't know if I was pushed or just fell.  

But all of a sudden, I was above the yard looking down on myself. I could see the other kids still running around and playing, unaware I was hurt, but it was peaceful, warm and quiet. I was lying motionless. I could see I was above the large tree that was in the yard. If I had to guess how high I was out of my body, probably 70 to 100 feet or maybe higher. Anyway, in a matter of seconds, I was back in my body. 

I jumped up holding my arm and started crying. It was pretty clear after a second that I had broken my arm. I never told my parents or anyone until later on in life.  I didn't want to sound like a nut. Later on in life, I was watching a special on TV about it and that's when I decided to share my experience. All I know is that, if that's what heaven feels like and I hope it is, and then I have no problem with death. It was truly a beautiful and peaceful experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1978 or 1979

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening .  I fell some distance. I think when I hit the ground is when the OBE was triggered


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sound at all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The sun and its warmth

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   christian

What is your religion now?      Moderate   christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part of the experience was having it and the worst was going back in my body.  The best was having it and the worst was going back in my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I never told my parents or anyone until later on in life.  I didn't want to sound like a nut. Later on in life I was watching a special on TV about it and that's when I decided to share my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donnie_h_nde.html