{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1doris_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Doris A NDE 445","mylang":"de"}
          	        Doris A NDE 445  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Doris A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1289 Doris A NDE 445  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On December 18th, 1993 (when I was forty-one years old) I suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. I died instantly. My fiancé called 911 and over the phone learned how to administer CPR to me until the paramedics arrived eight minutes later. They started my heart and rushed me off to the nearest hospital. During the eight minutes when I was unconscious, I observed (from an 'rial position) details of what occurred. I saw where I was, who was there, and what was done to me. I felt a feeling of peace that is hard to describe in words. I was not afraid and felt only like an observer. I did not necessarily want to come back to that body which was convulsing. I only remember a feeling of unexplainable peace and serenity and had no cognition of a material body, nor did I care. It did not last too long but I remember it vividly.

A few months later, the paramedics who worked at the nearby fire station (and who saved my life) had a neighborhood pancake breakfast. It was about seven months later and I was still in therapy and did not have a very good comprehension of what had happened to me. We were able to find four of the seven paramedics who had saved my life. At that time, my fiancé hadn't believed my story of what I saw happen to me. I explained it to the paramedics and they said it was exactly how they remembered it too, up to the amount of paramedics who assisted me. My fiancé said there were seven and I insisted there were six. The paramedics informed my fiancé that one of the paramedics was out in the fire truck so it could have only seen six! Since that time my fiancé then believed that, I had an out of body experience.

My fiancé Dave and I were married the next year, 1995. Unfortunately, the aneurysm had changed my personality so much, and I was so difficult for Dave to handle so we are currently going through divorce proceedings. It's sad because I still love him very much. I had many thoughts of suicide for the years after but have found a medication to help with that. I've had to pick up the pieces of my life and start over again. My two daughters, who were thirteen years and twenty-one years at the time of the aneurysm rupture, were very traumatized over it because I was not expected to live for the first two weeks and was in a coma during that time. Now they have become so very close to me and my life is worth living again. I'll never be able to be a secretary again.

My memory and my patience has been affected. I still get depressed but I lean on God for help. I started drinking for a couple years but stopped that way of life with the help and support of my friends and my daughters. I feel like living now and I will never forget the peace I felt from the out of body experience, which had made me unafraid of death anymore. I was always afraid of death. Now I know it is just a peaceful transition. My near death experience never did get any farther than above the room. I never saw a light or relatives who had passed; nevertheless, it was an experience that I know I was out of the body.  I had a very spiritual experience I can never forget. God has given me another chance at life here on earth and I feel the need to find out why, but it's hard. Life has gotten a little easier now but it will never be like it was. I don't remember 1993 through 1998 and unfortunately those where my youngest daughter's teenage years. I will always feel bad for her for that. Life is a struggle but I know it will get better. There must be a reason why I'm still here. I was so glad to find a place on the Internet to share this story. It's not something I feel free to share with others unless they have been through it themselves.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/18/93

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  Cerebral Hemorrhage  Clinical death   A cerebral hemorrhage caused instant death until paramedics started my heart again.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was above my body and felt no pain.  I had no consciousness of being in a body at the time. I just looked down and saw everything that happened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very conscious and alert and even recognized one of the paramedics a year later when I saw him at a gym. He was surprised because there was no way I could have remembered him when I was completely unconscious at the time of the hemorrhage.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no cognition of time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard no unusual sounds but I did hear what was being said and what was going on beneath me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Above the room and looking down on what was going on but having no earthly body or fears.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace. Completely relaxed. No consciousness of anybody.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

The experience included:       Boundary  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am no longer afraid of death and have since changed my religious beliefs.  While on my anti-depressant pill (which I may have to take the rest of my life) I am now very easy to get along with and don't let things bother me anymore. I am now at a time in my life where I am truly looking for the answers to life.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No one would believe me at first and it embarrassed me to tell anyone that I had an out of body experience. Also, it is very hard to explain in earthly words, this spiritual experience. To this day, I can't explain the feelings I had because they were so unlike those on earth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part is that it helped me grow spiritually, even though it took some time. I am grateful for every beautiful day now and grateful for my family and friends. I love nature, where I live is very beautiful, and I'm grateful. I try to live my life to the fullest and have taken some trips over the last year that I never thought would have been possible. I can't really afford to do these things but I do them anyway because life is too precious to pass good experiences over. I am going to go to Europe with my daughters for Christmas - something I never would have afforded myself before. I am using my retirement money to do this and I'm not sorry. My daughters and I are closer than ever now and I makes me cry with gratitude for my precious daughters. They are very good to me and don't want to lose their mother. The worst part of this experience was losing a husband who I love dearly. It hurts very much. He hates me with a passion for divorcing him but I knew he wasn't happy with me anymore and began to abuse me. I pray someday we can be friends again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first no one wanted to believe me because of my state of mind. I was in therapy and everyone thought I had hallucinated. Now, when I share with people, they listen and are more open to believing me since I am of a sounder mind and because I am able to explain in detail what I saw during the hemorrhage. Some people are very impressed and it makes me feel better.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sometimes I wonder why, of all our family members, this had to happen to me. But then again I think I would not change it. It has made me grow and get to know and love myself more than I ever did. I appreciate life more now.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doris_a_nde.html