{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1doris_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Doris Possible NDE 7218","mylang":"de"}
          	        Doris Possible NDE 7218  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Doris Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3672 Doris Possible NDE 7218  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been feeling dizzy for two days before I had an out of body experience in my home. I could observe how I was dressed.  I had already had a severe asthma attack, and then I felt dizzy at about 7 pm.  I was taken to the clinic, and I stayed like that for 30 minutes. 

The doctor checked me. He said I was dead and that they should take me to the morgue to do the autopsy required by law.  My husband asked the doctor not to send me there, to check me, stay close and let me stay in observation to see if I responded to any movement. The doctor agreed, thank goodness, and, yes, I came back 30 minutes later.  After this, they took me home, and I slept until the next day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  NO LA RECUERDO

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other: he estado en muerte clínica 3 veces y vuelvo.  I had no vital signs for 30 minutes, and they were going to send me to the morgue by law.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I listened to what was going on out of the building, but I saw myself in the hall, just as I was dressed and with the same asthma attack I had at that time. I think I was out of my body, but I was not scared. I knew I was feeling sick, but I could still listen to what was going on in the street. I knew what was happening to me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I am conscious, I know what I say and do. When this happens to me, my consciousness is very calm, elevated, in peace, in harmony, and I feel happy. I don’t have this now.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision is normal, but when I am in that trance, I would say that what I observe is very beautiful. It’s hard to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very blue and very white. I always see in white.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Really good ones, excellent ones.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   soy clara que venimos de Dios, porque somos polvo y en polvo volveremos

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My religious life always, as far as I can remember, has been important for me. With these experiences, it has been even more important, because I know I should help others who need it. Somehow, I should orient them.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   soy cristiana - católica, apostolica y romana por siempre

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     siempre he sido muy clara en mi vida, como persona, hija, hermana, esposa amiga completamente transparente como el agua

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It advised me, but I don’t remember what they told me. It also happened with John Paul II, three years before his death; he visited in my home.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     tuve la experiencia, pero si esto pasa en mi es porque, algo hay, eso es positivo

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We come to fulfill a mission, and we leave to continue evolving.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     si a lo mejor yo tengo dones como dicen por allí, y debo de cumplir una misión en el nombre de Dios

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     si porque venimos a cumplir una misión, y nos vamos a seguir evolucionando

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Si, mi opinión muy personal, que debemos vivir la vida muy tranquilos, ya que no debemos acelerar los acontecimientos de cada humano en la tierra, todo tiene un porque del suceder de las cosas, jamas aceleremos lo mas bello que Dios nos ha regalado "La Vida", porque de el somos y a el vamos, el es amor y por ese amor nacieron la mayoría de seres que habitan esta tierra, y por ese amor seguimos aquí, hasta que el disponga de nosotros, porque somos polvo y al polvo volveremos

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     si, que hay que ser leal, perseverante, tranquilo, honesto con nuestros semejantes, no odiar a nadie, ser amable, cariñoso, ser dado como humano y tender siempre nuestras manitos

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     After that experience, everything was very normal, but it has happened to me on 3 occasions. I see and feel many things around me. I have very pleasant, beautiful dreams. During the last one, I was going to address a large crowd of people who were wearing white and blue tunics. Then I was called, they knelt before me, and I could see how people were putting their heads on the floor. I was telling them, ‘Don’t do it, who do you think I am, nobody, please stand up, I have no money, I am very poor, please stand up.’  This dream was beautiful. People did not do what I asked them and kept kneeling with their heads on the floor. I don’t know what this could mean, but it surely touched my soul.  I also dream a lot about my husband; he is gone now for 4 months.  I keep dreaming that he comes back and says he loves me, that he only loves me and that he cannot live without me.  Oh, how I hope this is true, because I feel so lonely without him.  We had been happily married for 10 years, but, you see, he is gone, and I don’t understand why.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     They say I have gifts. I don’t know that I do, but that is what many people tell me when they see me and talk to me without knowing me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don’t share it that much. Only my parents understand. Other people are negative or not believers. I did share it with an aunt who was a parapsychologist. She passed away, but she spoke to me very intelligently.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real and it is still welcome.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In my very personal opinion, we have to be loyal, patient, tranquil, honest with each other. Don’t hate anyone, be friendly, loving.  We should live our life peacefully, because we should not expect to accelerate human events of every human being on earth. Everything has a reason why it happens. We should not accelerate the precious thing God has given us, our life. We come from him, and we will return to him. He is love, and that is why most of the beings on this earth were born. That is why we continue to be here, until he disposes of us. We are dust, and to dust we will return.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doris_possible_nde.html