{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_gv_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna GV NDE 7362","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna GV NDE 7362  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donna GV NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3745 Donna GV NDE 7362  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving home from my work. Apparently, there were not enough customers and too many girls wanting to work. So, I went to apply for another job in Austin and then drove home. I can get home two ways. I decided to go the more scenic route to see if I could pass my husband and say, 'Hi' on his way to work. It was dusk and a sudden fog appeared in front of me. That is the last I remember of that day in real-world time. 

I remember floating through the woods of many trees. There seem to be an open path where I was floating toward. I heard people in the woods laughing at me, but I could not see them. Still floating forward, I felt no pain, or any emotions. Yet the feeling was wonderful. I came to a stop and said 'I am ready'. I knew that this was the place to leave the living. Many people spoke as one collective mind. They said that it was not my time and that I had one more thing to do. 

I then woke up in the hospital in a fog not knowing anyone, even though my husband and his family were there to visit. They gave me a little stuffed animal. I think it was a bear. I remember eating various colors of Jell-O, orange and yellow. My head hurt. I had my seat belt on, yet my face and head had incurred multiple concussions.  My left temple had split open and had a few stitches. 

I had a dream a few years before of several men holding my legs and arms down and injecting my arm with a drug that drugged me to where I was immobile, though that would never happen to me.

A cop had shown up at my work later, to say he saw me at the hospital, the event of the accident and that I was so hostile that I had thrown or kicked (I do not remember) a female nurse into a wall and she left, not wanting to deal with me anymore. Back to my head: I remember when I first woke up in the hospital; my arms and legs were strapped to the bed with brown leather straps that buckled. Often a male nurse or doctor would ask me what year it was and what my name was. 

I left the hospital four days later still not really sure who I was or who anybody else was. A nurse wheeled me out of the hospital and I remember looking into a room where someone was sitting in a chair and their mouth was terrifyingly torn up and propped open with metal. Their arms were propped up oddly, too. I looked away with horror of the reality others are going through. I had four stitches in the side of my head, but that is all the doctor could do. I remember being curled up in a ball on my left side on a bed. The doctor was trying to convince me to show him my wound. I know things are not in order because memories came to me later. 

I went home and it took a month before I realized I had kids and wanted them home. I still felt like where I lived was not my home and my husband was not really my husband. I lived on four anti-pain tablets every 4-6 hours for a couple of years. I had a lot of depression, because I wanted to go back to where I felt complete and wonderful before I was turned back to this reality called earth. I thought of earth as a sort of hell, full of pain and suffering. I questioned why I was sent back and what that one more thing I had to do was. I was more family inspired, the pain did pass, and life was a nicer place without it. I am now with a new husband and a new life and home. Both of my parents whom have been separated and divorced for over 20 years have died within two weeks of each other and yesterday I got an unknown phone call of a ghostly voice saying 'save me'. A trick? A mistake? All this has made me ponder life, death and in between once more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury. Other: I am not sure. It was a car accident. I was alone in the crash on one side of the road until a person drove by to find me and called for help.  I had a car accident. I drove into a sudden fog on a two-way highway at 65 mph. Police told hospital staff that there was a recliner on the road and it appeared that I tried to swerve around it. Only I lost control and drove into trees.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I know the woods I saw and was floating in were similar to the woods my car had crashed into. My car stereo was stolen before a man found me and called for help.  I suspect the laughing was from the young men who may have taken my car stereo from my car as I lay bleeding and unconscious after the accident.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was different and hard to explain, but I will try. I got to speak to and hear many minds speak as one. Things looked similar, but we're not the same, similar to sharing the same space in a different dimension. The woods were vivid yet a dark space took the place of sky and through the woods seemed to end with a reflection of the same woods. The hecklers seemed to be trying to take my attention away from moving forward. I could not see them, but sensed them as being a couple of young men up to no good. I understood what I was doing there and why. There was no wind, hot, cold, sky, sadness or happiness, no smell or taste. I was not in my body. All knowledge is pulled together and I was going to join that knowledge and awareness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I am not sure. I was not thinking about time during the experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was seeing with my mind and not my eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was hearing more with my mind and not my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was passing through many trees that opened into a path as I floated through them.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were two young men laughing at me in the woods, but I had no interest in them. When I stopped floating, I met with many minds of many people who spoke as one. They were a collective of beings that I assumed were humans at one time.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I was looking around me as I was moving forward and when I came to a stop, my mind connected to speak with the other. No visual at that point.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confident, knowing, understanding, and accepting.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The end of the woods where I met with the many people who spoke as one

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am more open to people who are good people with good intentions.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I have studied a few and believe there is now something beyond death. I also believe in morals, ethics, community and family. I have allways experienced unknown things since I was a child and told not to speak of it. I wish not to chose a religion because I do not want to choose a side.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed at that time that you died and there was nothing. That life as a human was one time and then you were nothing when you died. This experience was that I did go some place and there is some place and you are part of a larger group of beings. The feeling is wonderful.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that we go someplace after we die.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was many minds of many people who spoke as one. I was told that it was not my time yet and I had one more thing to do.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I felt like this was not the first time I had come to the people and had entered before. It was familiar and I knew the way. I new there that I had died before and hence have lived before.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Oneness, yes that is exactly my experience. We are one together as a whole collective. It's an understanding. I knew then and there seemed to be definite purpose and order.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     We are energy that cannot be destroyed or created. Always existing, experiencing, and creating. We are all part of one and the one is made up of all of us.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt connected and part of all the people.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was told that I had one more thing to do. What is is is unknown. It was like I had a job to do and I had to figure it out and or accomplish it to get to my next destination.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We do go some place. Everyone does. I ask myself if bad people go to the wonderful place too, but am still unsure. It is a wonderful place and I think once you get to enter, the possibilities beyond that are open and free to your wants, dreams and even pe

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I think I had to come back to experience this  place in a certain way this time.?

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I have or have not changed relationships based on my living experiences with them and not because of a near death experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Explaining emotions I had never experienced in this reality of life on earth was tough. Going into more detail about visuals and explaining the people I met was a little emotional and I had to try and understand what I remembered by re- examining those memories again.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   A dream fades for me and this experience never faded.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always had odd abilities, but I seem to be more connected to the afterlife now. I wish I knew what to do with it or have people be okay with the way I am.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am happy to know that I am not alone after death and that there is a place for me somewhere.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One month and people either said it was just in my head or they thought I was just still healing and my mind was 'off'. Some were curious and loved to hear about the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Like I said earlier: This place was familiar and I knew what was happening to me. I was about to go to the other side and it was vivid and real and this memory never faded like a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. I believe it and do not care what others think. You do not have to be a certain religion to go to this wonderful place. Just be you with good intentions along the way. No one's perfect. We are all learning together. We are not alone in a good way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_gv_nde.html