{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_may_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna May S NDE\/FDE 9377","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna May S NDE/FDE 9377  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donna May S NDE/FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE and FDE  						5026 Donna May S NDE/FDE 9377  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My former husband returned home from work one day.  He arrived early, approximately 330 pm.  I was surprised to see him.  We were one month from our divorce finalizing.  He saw our four year old son and me dancing around the kitchen - I am an avid music lover as is my son.  My ex must have snapped.  He ambushed me before I even knew what was happening.  He pushed me backward against the stove - hurt my back.  Then he proceeded to strangle me.  I looked up into his eyes as my tears were streaming down.  He kept screaming, I’m going to kill you!  Over and over and over.  I heard our son screaming, 'You are killing my mommy!'  Over and over and over.  I couldn’t breathe.  Then I couldn’t see.  I couldn’t see?  Then my mom was in front of me, in her pretty pink top, silver hair, white shorts.  She didn’t say a word to me.  She just kept venturing to me, waving her hands toward herself as if to say, Come to me.  I screwed at her in my mind, I can’t, Mom.  I have to stay here with Nate!  The issue is - my mom had passed the May prior.  She was not among the living anymore.  

  In retrospect, and I have considered this many times, I believe my mom knew how much I loved my son, how devoted I was as his mother.  I - never - would leave my son for this psycho to raise.  Never.  I wonder if she knew I wouldn’t hurt my ex intentionally.  I wouldn’t fight back.  (I am a very sensitive, gentle person.)  Her beckoning to me would encourage me to say, No.  I can’t ….  Thereby waving my arms to tell her No.  By waving my arms about, without my knowing - I had scratched the living hell out of my ex’s face.  I never felt it.  Not one second - not one scratch.  I never could hurt another human.  Never.  As my hands were waving about, my hand hooked something.  I still couldn’t see.  I felt something wet - I knew it was his mouth.  I pulled as HARD as I could with all my might.  That’s how I got my lovely, sweet-tempered, marvelous former husband off me. 

  We both called the police.  He must have gone upstairs to use the phone in his bedroom where he remained.  He shoved me outside in NJ winter cold.  I had No coat.  He locked the door.  Many police officers arrived.  I was harangued by these lovely police officers until approximately 830 pm - several hours.  They treated me like dirt under their feet.  The police chief stood with his arms crossed over his chest, his legs splayed apart and his eyes upward at the dark night sky.  He didn’t appear to be listening to me at all. I asked him, 'Are you listening to me?'  He very angrily yelled in a deep, gruff voice, 'Are you ARGUING with me??!!'  I shut down.  No more talking to these men.  I was done.  

  I was handcuffed.  I asked for my coat.  I was told No.  Into the police car I was shoved.  My neck, back, head and my heart were aching.  They didn’t care one bit.  No Miranda was said to me.  Nothing was explained or said.  

  My former husband lied to the local police having fabricated a false complaint against me.  I read the police report.  It was all a lie.  

  I sat handcuffed in the police vehicle, in the police station.  I asked for a cup of water.  A police officer told me; we have no cups.  I asked for a bottle of water.  I was told, we have no bottles.  I was so thirsty.  And no one cared.  

  At 2 am, I finally was released on my own recognizance.  I then had a police record for domestic violence.  I was nearly murdered, and I was the one arrested with a criminal record.  

  It’s the only NDE I have.  It was the most terrifying experience I ever had - at the hands of a man I truly loved.    For at least a year, perhaps two, I suffered a

cute PTSD with my former husband stabbing me, shooting me, etc.  Broad daylight and I was experiencing this hell.  I also feared the police.  I stopped smiling and waving hello at them.  I bought a house in an adjacent town because I never wanted to be forced to call them for help.  I just didn’t trust them.  I lost faith in them.  It’s been 13 years, and I still don’t like to be near a uniformed police officer.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/28/2008  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Yes, my husband at the time attempted to murder me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I apologize, again.  I do not know how to answer this.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I apologize.  I do not know what you are asking.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time absolutely lost all meaning.  I nearly died.  No breathing, No vision because he cut off my oxygen supply.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had lost my ability to see.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was far more sharpened.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was so happy to see my mom again - at first.  Then a small part of my mind thought, 'Wait. This isn’t right.'  Mom had passed.  It was a very strange mind space.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had No idea my mom was still with me and would come to my aid in a time of crisis.  This concept is extremely comforting.  I have missed my mom dearly since she had passed.  We had been close.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I know for a fact; my mom always is with me.  I swear, she communicates with me through my writing and the songs I hear.  It’s the darnest thing and the most wonderful and comforting.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     My mom came before me.  She was dressed in her summer clothing; in colors she often wore.  Her being has led me to believe without a shadow of a doubt, my mom is with me, protecting me.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     All I can say is I always knew my mom loved me while she was on this planet with us.  After this horrendous incident with my former husband, I believe my mom still loves me.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I haven’t experienced anything different per se.  I will say, I have an empathic gift/sensitivity.    I did have another experience wherein I heard God or my Guardian Angel speak to me very clearly.  This masculine voice was all encompassing.  I was 18 in 1985 September.  I was in a very near auto accident in which I could have perished or had been injured severely.  This spirit also put his hand on my shoulder.  He told me - in my mind - to pull my car to the right side of the road.  I did as instructed.  (My vehicle had No working brakes, No emergency brake nor seat belt.  It was a used piece of junk my ignorant father didn’t check its safety.). Then, in a magnificent, deep, resonating, melodic, powerful voice, I HEARD him say, Fear not.  I am with you.  I was NOT raised with any religion as my parents were non-believers, yet I always was.  Always.  Somehow through the grace of God, my vehicle sailed through a red light during 4 pm traffic at a five point intersection.  There were three lanes, all with two vehicles in each lane.  How did I manage to do this?  I don’t know other than a miracle occurred.  I kept applying the brakes praying they would work, and they did.  My vehicle stopped near two police officers who were managing the traffic.  They both rushed over to me, questioning if I were okay.  I was crying.  The one police officer asked me why was I crying.  I said, my father is going to kill me.  The irony of this statement made by an 18-year old self is not lost by me.    I would be more than happy to complete a second application.  I will say, I am extremely regretful i did not think to ask the names of the two police officers who had witnessed this absolute miracle.  I will add - my own brother had passed at 17 years of age in very much the same manner.  I felt many presences in my vehicle at the time I heard and felt my guardian Angel.  I often wondered if it were my brother.  He had passed when I was only four years of age.  I didn’t and still don’t remember him.  I have been told he truly loved and protected me.  I strongly felt his presence in my vehicle - along with many others.  Many others.  I remember distinctively looking around my vehicle as I was driving toward the red light.  It felt as if I were driving a clown car with so many people!  I’ll never, ever will forget.  It was frightening and yet the most magical experience of my life.  I have absolutely No doubt we are watched, loved and protected.  Amen.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a difficult time with those who do not believe me.  It is very hurtful.  I don’t waste my time on people like this.  I don’t continue relationships with people who do not trust me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the details as if it had happened today.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have received numerous warning messages and Yes, I absolutely heed them.  Always.  They never are incorrect.  I have learned to pay attention for them.  I sense, see spirits in my house especially in our basement.  My 19-year old has the same ability I do.  I didn’t tell him beforehand.  He told me on his own.  He fears it.  I don’t.  I cherish my ability and welcome it.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nothing beyond what I have explained previously.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    How long before I had shared it?  Immediately with my closest friends.  I have shared it many times.  I have shared it with friends, acquaintances and at church.  Many have been dubious.  Those who know me to be very honest and candid believe me - especially those who have been with me when an incident occurs when they are with me at the time.  I’ve had quite a few visits with spirits and I have received many messages over the past 37 years.  Yes - it all began, the messages, after my initial potential near death auto accident.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I lived it.  I experienced it.  I trust my mind.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, I lived it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would love to assist,  but I don’t have any suggestions.  I hope my sharing my experiences have helped.  I know they certainly have helped me.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_may_s_nde.html