{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna M NDE 2615\/3196","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna M NDE 2615/3196  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donna M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						850  Donna M NDE  2615/3196  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description 2615:   

  					  During the delivery of my youngest child, I saw myself turn a grayish color, my Doctor instructed the nurses give me an injection; they couldn't seem to find a vein that worked. He asked them to put a page over the intercom requesting any Doctors in the hospital to come to the delivery room. Another Doctor arrived. My deceased Father, who passed away the month before, was on the left side and slightly back of my Doctor. My Father was also very concerned, I felt so at peace I wanted to go with him. I had a life review and knew everything in an instance. Then I was told that my children needed me and I should stay here.  

Next, I remembered the nurses saying hold your baby, hold your baby.

My Father was gone.

As the nurse wheeled my bed back to a room they asked me 'What was it like?'

I felt it was a very private experience and did not answer them.

Later I told my husband, and then my Doctor.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'June 30, 1968'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Cardiac arrest  Childbirth (cardiac arrest)  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   life review  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I did my life review.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was aware of everyone's position in the room.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear what everyone was saying.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceases Father (who died the previous month). We communicated through thought. He was concerned. He let me know everything was okay. I could see him clearly and his facial expressions.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     It was in an instant, I was my own judge. I knew all the good and not so good that I had done, and saw how it affected others. I felt so far I was doing pretty good.  I know there is life after death or no such thing as death. I also have never been afraid of dying.  I look forward to when my time comes. We are here to help others.  The second time it happened was in 1990. I knew I was going to die that night (irregular heart beat). Then I received a message that it wasn't time yet, my husband needed me. My heart started beating normally without medical intervention, and has been fine since.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How wonderful it was. How I was no linger afraid of death.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           


   Experience Description 3196:   

  I was very calm, I saw myself turn grey, heard the Doctor ask the nurses to get help. Saw my deceased father on my left side, who had passed away the previous month.   It was an indescribable joy and so peaceful, I wanted to go with my Father.

I did a life review in an instance. Then I was given a clear message from a power that I could not see or hear.  I was told that it was not my time yet, and I was needed here to raise my children.

The nurses kept telling me to hold my baby, later after the Doctor left they asked me what it was like?  After telling my husband about it, we agreed to speak to my Doctor about the event.  I have never been afraid of death, as I know there is no such thing as death. I felt it was extremely positive and feel it was a gift. I became a much better person due to this experience.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    'June 30, 1968'  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Cardiac arrest.  cardiac arrest during childbirth  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   life review  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      life review  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No       

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons  

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My father who had recently died. He was very concerned, and I wanted to go with him.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?      No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No       

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe       

The experience included:      Life review  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything said and done that affects other people.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No       

What is your religion now?      Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:    

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are here to help each other  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No  more understanding of others  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was very personal  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     became more psychic  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    One day with my husband. Yes, it also opened his mind.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Arrhythmia (irregular heart beat) in 1989.   I was told again I was to remain here to help my husband.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I woke up the next morning and have not had anything like it since  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The feelings of peace.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_m_nde.html