{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donavan_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Donavan S NDE 4653","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donavan S NDE 4653  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donavan S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2357 Donavan S NDE 4653  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Was playing in an inner tube on the sound side of where we lived. I was 'twirling' around and around and apparently had slipped through the tube and gone to the bottom.

I thought I had had a dream. Maybe I passed out. The only thing was the absolute clarity I had of the incident and the surroundings even to this day.

When I read the book 'Evidence of the Afterlife', I couldn't get that scene out of my head as if someone was trying to tell me to review it and try to talk about it.

When I slipped to the bottom, my ten-year-old brother had been playing in the sand with his trucks. I entered an almost lime green world. I was in a store, just running up and down the aisles. I guess I was supposed to be shopping and I thought the lady was mad at me because I was misbehaving. She took me to the door (an old wooden turnstile type). She had a striped dress on and her hair was up like they used to wear in the 1950's. She was very beautiful. She implicated something like I couldn't come in the store right now and shut the door behind me. I heard no voices.

My brother had been learning about life-saving techniques from the scouts or somewhere. When I woke up he was hitting me on the back and I coughed out a lot of water. I told him about the dream immediately because I was instantly awake. He was so afraid that our mom and dad would find out that they wouldn't let us go swimming by ourselves again. We were both good swimmers. He said not to say ANYTHING about it.

I noticed with absolute clarity that he had by that time built a whole city for his little trucks. All of these little sand roads had been built since I had started swimming. That vision is still so clear that I could almost draw a picture of it today.

I don't really remember much that happened that day but later on in my life, certain things happened that I was always told not to talk about.

When I was around twelve, taking a bath, I smelled my grandfather's pipe tobacco. It was so aromatic that I wrapped a towel around me and ran into the kitchen to ask if grandpa was there. We still lived in North Carolina and my grandfather lived in New York. They only visited in the fall and it was during the summer. He was not there. Later that evening, we received a call saying that my grandfather had fallen in the bath and had broken his leg.

I have had many such experiences in my life that I could not explain. In college, I had drug and alcohol problems mainly because of that type of thing. I just wanted to turn them off. Some of the experiences were of the life and death type, some just everyday little things, like smelling my mom's lasagna or knowing which flower she was going to pick. Little things.

After I read the book a couple of weeks ago, they started up again with a vengeance. Like there is some kind of urgency. I usually will journal several incidences a day. Last night was the second time in my life that I have had a 'remote viewing' occurrence.

So now, once again, I think I may be going crazy. I'm not afraid of these, just have to ask 'what for'? There is usually nothing I can do.

I went to a psychiatrist a few times and told them about the most current ones and their only suggestion was to take a bunch more medications.

Thank you for letting me tell my story for the first time and letting me get that off my chest! And, oh by the way, I still love the water and still can't wait until summer to float in my inner tube again!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer 1951

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Don't know how long I was under the water. My ten year old brother was watching me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Afterwards.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Afterwards.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors and the clarity of even the sand.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The woman in the store.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Lime green. Warm and happy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The store itself was beautiful.  How could a child look at clothes and such, with this beautiful "koolaide" green light

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Following the accident a sense of change.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was in the store and was shown to the door.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am a great people lover! No one has any faults as far as I'm concerned.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was told that I had a great imagination and to forget it. Never really talked about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always been perceptive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The green light. I am also an artist now and always aware of bright, 'Walt Disney' like colors. In fact, I will go to a cartoon channel and turn the sound off and just gaze at the beautiful colors.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was a child and I was told to keep my mouth shut so I just quit thinking about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm sixty-one years old and the underwater scene is remembered with crystal clarity. It seems to live in a little pocket in my brain.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am thankful for the book. It seemed to open up a whole new field of possibilities.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donavan_s_nde.html