{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna A NDE 706","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna A NDE 706  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Donna A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						228  Donna A NDE  706  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I can remember being scared to have the operation. During the surgery, I almost died and I can remember rising out of my body a few feet and all I was interested in seeing was my mother. I did notice a great big huge light coming from above me. I couldn't tell if this was a surgery light or if it came from elsewhere. I floated through doorways and didn't pay any attention to the surgical goings on. The main thing that I was interested in was comforting my mother. I remember that she was with a couple of her friends. I wanted so very badly just to be able to reach out and hold her. I can remember being there with them; of course, they had no idea. Suddenly I was snapped away, something must have happened in the operating room, and I was whisked back into my body. After my operation and throughout the rest of my childhood I became an adult. I had no childhood really and I was always there to help my mother. (I think this was even stronger since her family was in England.) 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1968

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I had a brain tumor and it was being surgically removed/attempted. It involved the brain and other things in that area. It was a craneo-pharyngioma. I have actually had three major brain operations for this tumor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I had no appearance at all. I saw a mass of light, but not real bright that was in my place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert and knew and understood all that was going on.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I saw a light I was just unsure where it came from.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that I had a purpose that was yet to be fulfilled. I also know that I have not yet gotten there either.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was no longer afraid of death at all.  I knew that I had a purpose to serve and I couldn't quit before I reached that.  I had a closeness with my mother that I cannot put in words, but that was important because she needed that and especially since I had taken on an adult like role.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   It was very emotional for me. I find anything emotional hard to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     After this, and it continued to grow, I found that I did have a few psychic abilities. But they were limited.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part of this experience was being able to comfort.  The worst part I think was when I was suddenly snatched away from it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    Not totally.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   More surgeries which led to it?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Was your experience with living people or deceased ones? Mine was with the living.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_a_nde.html