{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna C NDE 7896","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna C NDE 7896  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donna C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4091 Donna C NDE 7896  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was midday. I made myself a mask of oats and eggs, then applied it on the upper parts of my body, chest, arms and face.  I ran a bath after 15 minutes. It was a sunny day, and there was just my mother and myself in the house.  My nephew and father were away.  My mother was downstairs making lunch, so she didn't realise I had gone into the bath.  When I opened the key to the shower, I started to feel the hot water and I cleaned  away the mask.  The air was full of vapor and I felt that I needed air.  I felt frightened of falling down and injuring myself.  I was also afraid that my mother would find me collapsed on the floor of the bathroom, dead.  So, I took a towel and wrapped myself in it. I left the room feeling like I was going to faint. I cried out to my mother, but my voice was very faint.  I fainted, collapsing outside the bathroom on the floor. 

I didn't know what had happened to me.  I saw myself floating in a white tunnel of light.  I had white clothing and was barefoot. I felt a tremendous peace; something very beautiful in my heart.  I didn't think I had died. I only felt peace and love.  From afar, I heard my mother's voice.  Suddenly, I felt something change in my heart. I heard her cry and it made me feel pain and sorrow to hear her.  I said to myself that I needed to return.

I opened my eyes and she was there on the corner of my bed, crying with her hands on her face.  I spoke to her saying “Mama!” She looked at me and I told her what had happened.  She said to me, “You have fainted girl.” I was trapped and I listened to her voice.  She said to me very quietly, but I said, “Mama, I can't hear you clearly.”  I felt something in my chest and I said to myself that I needed to go and see how she was. I ran up the stairs, and I found myself collapsed half-naked with the towel wrapped around me, in bed.

She wanted to wake me up.  She gave me a slap and couldn't make me react. I was so pale, like paper, that she gave me three more slaps, as hard as she could,  to make me react.  She didn't know what to do.  Then she started to cry because I hadn't reacted.  She didn't know how much time had elapsed, but said, 'I couldn't make you return.' I told him what I had felt in my breast and that I was in a tunnel of light that felt very nice. She said to me, “Hey girl you have died!” and I replied to my mother, “If this is what it feels like to die, I won't be frightened Mama because it feels so nice.” I never told anyone what had happened that day, just my mother.  She just told them I had fainted, been unwell, and nothing more.  But to some people I began to explain how I had felt, and that it wasn't a dream.  I believe that Angels exist.

Some years ago, I almost got ran over by a van.  I hadn't seen it coming.  I got down out of the bus, I wanted to cross the road I looked one way but not the other.  I was already down on the pavement and I saw that the van was approaching and about to hit me.  It was so fast and at the same time so slow.  I felt as if someone had pulled me back by the shirt, and made me get back on the pavement. I strongly believe that it was Heaven and Angels, that are looking after us.  

My mother died a month ago, and she said to me “I am scared of dying child.”  I said, “Mami! Don't be afraid! You will be with God and you won't be afraid.' I felt her death very badly.  I know that one day her and myself will meet again and she will say, 'You were right child, it is a beautiful place, heaven.'   I love you Mami!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was about to bathe, to go to school, I had classes that afternoon, and in the shower I felt ill, dizzy and I was afraid of falling down hitting myself and dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the cries of my mother.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I felt that everything was happening slowly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I floated towards the tunnel of light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What happened was very slow.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was listening to what was happening away from the tunnel.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     See Experience

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tunnel, there was this radiant and very beautiful light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, something in my heart, great harmony, no fear at all, happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that it had been something beautiful, very far from the earthly world; it was like knowing where I was going.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   Upon hearing my mother cry, it made me want to come back, because I did not want to see her suffer. With the passing of the years, I have questioned myself whether I came back, not for my mother, because I have suffered many things, from then, and at that moment, I didn't know everything that would happen. I came back for my mother, and now that I have lost her, I am not sad. Having been here on earth with her, as well as saying to myself that God has saved me many times. As a baby, I had four operations at the age of 4 months, and two major operations when only 4 years old, during my life in hospital my mother and father cared for me. I was always in intensive care. At one point, she said to me, ‘I leave you to God that he take you so that I don't see you suffer any more. Very often, that machine sounds that your heart has stopped beating’. I believe that her love sustained me, kept me alive, with their care, I always felt this obligation of love to carry on for those two that cared for me so much.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   CREO EN DIOS , LA VIRGEN MARIA

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   soy creyente , creo enn los santos en los angeles en la madre de jesus

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believe that that which happened in that moment affirmed that which I felt, and now I am not frightened of death.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in Heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt that it was God that was on the other side of the tunnel.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I believe that this place exists because it is a sensation like being alive, not like a dream or as if you have imagined it.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     I wasn't able to see but I was able to feel that it was God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We have fear of living and believing there is a being full of love that forgives us, and that only wants us to avoid everything that saddens us; and that we should be happy. I have suffered a lot, before all this, I was angry because I blamed Him for everything, but now I understand that He is only love and we ourselves don't see this intense love that we have inside, and it is thanks to Him that we continue in spite of everything.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt it in my heart.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     ‘In God’s time, time is perfect’ is a sentence I have heard a lot, and the truth is that God is in our lives in every moment, caring for us. He gave us free will, but in the depth of our heart one knows that God always tries to guide us, that there is one voice that guides us, and that often we don't listen to it, blessings to everyone.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is infinite and appears in many forms; in that moment, to listen to my mother crying, the love towards her made me return and I know that one day I will see her again never to be separated.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       That sometimes I have wanted, again, this beautiful experience and to go to the end of the light.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Actually no. It is something I will always remember, feeling the same sensation that I felt while I floated towards the light.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  My memories are like seeing them with eyes wide open, and feeling them again. Clearly, it would be beautiful to have this experience again but I would not be able to go towards the light; now that I have my father and love him, and he needs me at his side, and I him, to enjoy life together with my brothers and sisters. Then we will meet up with my mother and my relatives that have then passed away.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My dreams tell me things, I dream a lot.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That love makes us sacrifice the most beautiful, that for anyone to arrive in Heaven, is marvellous, in this case my mother.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They were surprised and some of them, I felt, would have liked to have had a similar experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt normal and my life continued its course.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe, in that moment, I had this beautiful experience, because God had wanted it that way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       They were very clear questions, and they express that which one is able to describe.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_c_nde.html