{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1donna_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Donna D NDE 483","mylang":"de"}
          	        Donna D NDE 483  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Donna D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1280 Donna D NDE 483  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Have received scientific knowledge that I would not ordinarily have known. I have constantly been on a spiritual quest since this experience. Receive an abundance of spiritual energy at twilight RISP - Recurrent Isolated Sleep Paralysis. Felt as if I traveled through a wormhole or tunnel - Einstein-Rosen Bridge. These entities are helping us fix things by expanding our awareness, which is the source of our predicament we find the planet in.  At some moment I did answer Yes to Something or Someone - and from that hour I was certain that existence is meaningful and that, therefore, my life in self surrender had a goal. We are inflicting unwelcome changes on the planet, which is really not ours. We are killing it. Our planet is dying. Time is critical. ACT NOW - SETI  WIMP TOE LIGO - on a mission from God. Galaxy Quest. Save the Pale Blue Dot - Mindshift - Blue shift - Visual Ray Theory - Third-eye - tesseract - 4 + Aktis Ray (gamma) Actin. At times, a Spirit comes and takes me away. Dreams work. Remain open at the top, just don't know, just don't know. God is infinite, supernatural, God is Spirit.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 23, 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident     I was hit in the temple area of my had with a basketball....which knocked me off balance...I fell and hit my head on the concrete...and was unconscious for at least 15-20 seconds....

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Higher level of consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered state of consciousness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Buzzing silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Light. Light crossing over, merging, conjunction.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Raph'l - angel of science healing and knowledge. The planet is in trouble there is still hope, it can still be saved. However, time is critical - ACT Now.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brightness, warm, comforting, another dimension.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, light, vibration, sound, color, energy.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Paraphysics, PSI, theory of unified space-time; dimensional mind travel; Visual Ray theory: DNA ACTG; M-Theory-string theory; black holes and elementary particles, CERN (LHC); other dimensions/multi-verses. We are not alone, we are all one. One Cosmos. We are here, all for others; take me to your enlightened leaders.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Catastrophic events would occur in regards to the planet, we had created imbalance, raped and pillaged the planet.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Time is critical, we must ACT now. We are all one. What affects one of us inevitably affects us all.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Supernatural experience - communication with spiritual entity identified as Raph'l angel of science, healing and knowledge.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My artistic abilities increased, my intuition increased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Love and light. To be ignored and considered crazy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Family, doctors, some have ignored it as crazy or psychotic.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Save the planet, time is critical, we must act now. Have vision, see with new eyes. God is an eternal, uncreated, infinite, supernatural, self-sustaining, heavenly and existing spirit who hath become in the course of nature and time a visible, bodily mortal man. Whoever hath eyes to see, can and will see rightly.  Dammed is he who doth not believe. Everything thing has its end and announces its beginning. Turn from the illusory world you live in see the world of reality and be governed by it now. Step into the void of the consciousness of spirit, for in the void lies the fullness of All Creation. Spirit Matters. E=MC2    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1donna_d_nde.html