{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Don T NDE 3181","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don T NDE 3181  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1262 Don T NDE 3181  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was being wheeled down the hallway to my room after a lengthy registration period by a somewhat indifferent Catholic sister/nurse. I was a Protestant and this; the closest hospital (and Catholic) didn't want to accept us. I was fading and getting weaker and weaker by the moment. The nurse was pushing me along the hallway in a wheelchair with my mother following close behind. My mother was getting frantic, because of my worsening appearance, while the nurse seemed to be taking her time. Suddenly I slumped in my chair, moaned and my conscious self 'lifted' out of my body leaving the chair. I floated above the nurse and my mother at about the level of the high hallway ceiling. I saw the thoughts of them both; the nurse thought she would be fired and my mother thought I died and what would people think of her. She was/is a loving mother and that was her immediate thought.

I continued floating upward and became a little frightened. I noticed I was curled up and that I felt very good (much better than when I was in the chair). Finally, I realized I was in the presence of some beings that were very loving. While there seemed to be a main being, the others were free to communicate also. I was shown the history of the planet and other things that I lost almost immediately. I think I remember asking if I could tell people about the secrets I'd seen. They made me understand that I would forget the secrets very quickly (and I did). I then was told that I could stay with them if I liked and have a 'rest' but that I wasn't finished. They said if I stayed, I would have to go back eventually. I understood this as going back in another body and starting all over.

I told them I would go back and immediately felt being drawn back down to the chair where my body was waiting. I got back into my body much like putting on a coat of stiff old clothes. It was very painful and my body felt terrible.

I lifted my finger to signal that I was okay.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Spring of 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other 'Having had a tonsillectomy 2 weeks prior, I was playing vigorously and broke a stitch in my throat. I lost a lot of blood overnight.'  As mentioned I popped a stitch from a recent surgery and lost a lot of blood overnight by continually swallowing. In the morning, I regurgitated the blood and was rushed to the hospital by my mother. I think I died in the wheel chair from loss of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just after lifting out of the chair when I could see the nurse and my mother below.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I mentioned, I read the minds of the people attending me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I was being spoken to by the beings, I was aware that we were talking telepathically and that they could read my thoughts. They answered my questions as they were being formulated in my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt like I was in a room when I encountered the beings, but I don't remember seeing any walls.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not know the beings but felt loved by them and as if I was part of them.  It was communicated to me that I could stay and rest for a while if I liked but that my time on earth wasn't finished.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The beings gave off a light and I could not make out any features.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I don't remember

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   We went to church most Sundays. I prayed often and spoke with the Lord in my prayers.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They have become stronger. Yet sometimes I take for granted that there is life after death and don't behave to my best.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I attend church (almost) every Sunday. And still pray.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     They have become stronger. Yet sometimes I take for granted that there is life after death and don't behave to my best.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was shown things about the universe and the planet. They were things that made me have an understanding of everything. I remember going 'aha!' But I do not remember the things I was shown.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to be compassionate with people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was so young, that I was afraid to share it with anyone. Yet I knew it was important and that it could serve to allay people's fears about death if I were to talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being told I could go back or stay, but that if I stayed I would eventually have to go back because things weren't finished for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I began by sharing it with my mother first and not immediately. Then I kept it to myself for many years. At the time, no one had ever heard of anything like this. I remember reading about if first in a 'Reader's Digest' and saying 'that happened to me'.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had/have no doubts about the reality of the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real. I was young and had never heard of anything like this at the time it happened. It was only years later that it was confirmed that it happened to others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It was very good.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_t_nde.html