{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_m_ndes.html","mytitle":"Don M NDEs 9676","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don M NDEs 9676  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don M NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						5197 Don M NDEs 9676  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    In 1989, I was driving a 1950 Chevy sedan. I was driving above 100 miles per hour on a Cuban country road.  I tried to negotiate a narrow curve and failed as I came off the road, and hit several concrete fence poles and one big electrical pole.   The car veered into the pasture that had some meadows.  The car was flipping and rolling two or three times.  At the second meadow, somehow or by someone, my body was extracted from the car. I was suspended in the air and landed softly on the ground.  Although I only had a minimal scratch on my right hand only, the car broke apart in many pieces and was completely destroyed. 

  During the experience, my future life as it happens afterward and it is now was flashed on my eyes and brain. I saw a bright light.  I saw transparent entities protecting me who were covering my body like in a bubble.  I also saw my future sons and daughter. 

  On the ground, I could not believe I was undamaged.  I was a newly graduated physician and I knew about physical lesions, etc. It was impossible to be in that accident and suffer no physical damage. I was able to walk away from the accident scene with my clothing that was almost clean. People who came to the scene were looking for a body inside the damaged car. Nobody could believe that I was the driver. When police arrived and confirmed it was my car and I was the driver, everybody present were in awe. From that day forward, I started believing in Angels. That is the only feasible explanation I can have of that event.  

          In 2006, I developed cardiac arrhythmia and had a syncope after taking Metoprolol from low blood pressure and heart beat rate. I was taken to the hospital in Miami, Florida. I was working as a Registered Nurse at the time in the Cardiology unit. I was sedated, lying on the hospital stretcher as the doctor initiated a cardioversion procedure to stop my heart briefly and reinitiate it to break down the arrhythmic pattern. Somehow, it took longer that they expected to reinitiate my heart.  

  I saw again a bright light, but this time it was preceded by a long, dark tunnel. In the light, I was greeted again by transparent entities, my deceased grandparents and my unborn daughter and son. I saw my body while my 'soul' was hovering over it. I saw the doctor and the team giving me CPR and preparing the AED although it was not used. Then I was pushed back to my body and my heart beat reestablished.

  Now, I have 3 sons and 1 daughter. My older son is 39 years old, he has 2 children. I have another son who is 25 years old, and my baby son is 8 months old. My daughter is 8 years old.    

  I thank God every single day.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1989  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   In 1989, a horrific automobile accident and in 2006 I had a surgery complication.
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Saw people, things around me  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   All my senses were sharper than usual  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always at the very end of the experience  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Described above  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had premonitions of something impending every time of my experiences  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was enhanced during the experience  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Described above  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Described above  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Described above  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Described above  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awesome emotions  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Described above  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Described above  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   From that point in my life I started believing in Angels  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Described above  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was raised Catholic, but at the time of my first experience I was not practicing it due to Political restrictions in Cuba. Physicians were prohibited to practice any religion, or attend church's by the communist's government at the time.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Described above  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Described above  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Described above  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Interesting detail. I found and has been present in my thoughts ever since that I had previous lives and will have future lives as well. It gives me sense of peace and confidence.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Described above  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Described above  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Described above  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Described above  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     Described above  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Overwhelming Love  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Emigrated out of Cuba and Communisms, unexpectedly to the USA. Married and had 4 beautiful children and now two beautiful grandchildren. Went back to the university, got my Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral degrees in USA. Started and maintained several business creating jobs for many people. Able to care for my patient been more compassionate. Enjoy life much better. Understand the world even better. Have hope.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Described above  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No matter how we write about t it, the wholeness of it is unique  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Those memories are so fixed in my memory, that I believe it will prevail even if I develop Alzheimer's in the future.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Better understanding of human beings and emotions  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Described above  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In my inner family, other would not believe it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was and still very vivid experience  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Described above  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nope  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_m_ndes.html