{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Don M NDE 6494\/3892\/2230","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don M NDE 6494/3892/2230  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1847 Don M NDE 3892  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6494  					</p>  					I was working on a tugboat as a deckhand.  We were waiting for good weather to tow two barges to Toronto.  The captain got a good forecast and we went to hook up to the barges.  It was dark and snowing heavily, but at least mild enough so that we wouldn't make ice if the spray out on Lake Huron hit us.  We left the dock to hook up to the barges and picked up the rubber bumpers that were dragging in the water so less spray would hit us.

At the barges, I jumped off to hook up the running lights and heard a yell back at the tug.  I ran back and the chief engineer was looking down.  I saw Rick coming up like a codfish with his eyes wide open in fear.  When he hit the surface, I grabbed him, but with the deck slippery with two inches of wet snow, I was in danger of being pulled in.  Rick weighed around 200 lbs. and, as I was laying down reaching three feet down, how could I have done any different?  Well, the tug was drifting in slowly and as it was right at the breast, Rick's head was going to get crushed.  I couldn't let him go, so I squared my shoulders thinking maybe I'd just break a shoulder, but at least Rick's head wouldn't get it.  Well, the tug kept on coming in and I realized that I couldn't get out even if I wanted to.  I thought my ribs were going to splinter and all the while thinking the tug would have to stop, but it kept on coming and I thought my head was going to pop off.  Thinking 'So that's it,' I felt stupid and said goodbye to my whole family.

Then, a friend of mine from back home, Bruce, was just off my right and said that everything's all right.  He guided me ahead where there was a light so bright and glowing, and a whooshing tunnel-like whirlpool.  I trusted Bruce and was going in when I asked, 'What's happening?'  A male voice matter-of-factly said 'You are drowning' and I was given a choice.  I then saw my mother and two sisters, Mary-Lou and Lorna, crying at the kitchen table like I never want to see again.  I screamed out 'NO!' and woke up.  I don't know how deep I was.  I didn't even know I was in water, but when I hit the surface, I took a huge breath of air.  All was dark as I must have looked south towards Lake Huron.  It was dark as I turned, and then less dark as I peered through the falling snow.  So what does a person do but head for the light, and sure enough it's a tug boat.  There was no way to climb up the stern, so I made my way alongside, heard the engines, and realized that I worked on it.  I made my way around the bow and Bill yelled out my name, 'Don!'  My name came back and I realized I was in the water with a few feet to go for a grip onto the corner of the barge where Rick was holding onto a ladder.  Rick couldn't get his feet on the first rung, so I reached up and felt pain in my shoulder but grabbed the ladder anyway and, with my head under Rick's butt, I pushed him up.  The captain was pulling on him also as I'm sure Boyd was too.  I climbed up myself and went on my knees on a construction mat looking up into the snow and thinking about God, and all I could see was a fierce picture of him that's painted on the ceiling of the church back home.  Rick came to show me his wallet all wet and the captain gave me shit for going in the water.  I don't remember saying anything, but I must have just changed my clothes and went back to work.  As I was on shift until midnight, I had a hard time just turning the steering wheel with my sore shoulders.  We got to Toronto the day before Christmas and I had a few things to do for layup.  I caught the bus and got off at Curry Hill where I called home and my mother and my sister Margie picked me up.  As I was driving north and trying to get up the nerve to tell them about my accident, passing the fourth concession Mom tells me that Bruce drowned last fall.  Well, that was too much for me: the same Bruce that was welcoming me into the light had drowned two months before.  It wasn't until 1991 after many flashbacks and accidents that I went to Bruce's brother and told him, just to let him know that Bruce was okay.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 10 ?  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Drowning    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A crew member fell overboard.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I couldn't go in the light as much as I wanted to.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my mother and sisters crying.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A friend, Bruce, was guiding me toward the light.  I found out that he had drowned when I got home.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A glowing brilliance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bewilderment, but total trust in Bruce who was guiding me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came to a definite conscious decision to 'return' to life when I saw my mother and sisters crying at the kitchen table.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   All the voice said was 'You are drowning.'

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Bruce Mcdonald was there and I found out later that he had drowned near Cornwall 2 months before.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't believe it could happen and, until 1991, didn't tell anyone.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me 18 years to tell Bruce's brother that I saw him in the light.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

  Experience Description 3892  					</p>  					It was snowing big flakes.  Around 8:00 at night, we were underway to tow two barges to Toronto.  As we pulled up to the barges, I jumped off to connect the batteries to the running lights and I heard a yell back at the tug.  The engineer was looking down, and that's when I saw Rick coming up to the surface.  As the decks were slippery with snow, as soon as I grabbed him, I was in danger of being pulled in.  The first mate grabbed ahold of my legs.  The tug was getting closer and, as Rick's head was going to get it, I couldn't let him go.  I squared my shoulders and thought that maybe I'd just break a shoulder.

Well, the tug just kept on coming, and I knew it had to stop soon, but by then I realized I couldn't get out if I tried.  At first, I thought my ribs were going to cave in and then I said goodbye to my family and I thought my head was going to pop off.

Then, a friend from back home in Glen was right beside me.  It was Bruce, and he said, 'It's okay.  Relax.  You're welcome.'  He was guiding me towards the most brilliant light and a roaring tunnel.  In my mind, I asked what was happening.  A voice came.  A male voice just matter-of-factly said, 'You are drowning.'  Instantly, I saw my mother and my two little sisters, Mary-Lou and Lorna, crying at the kitchen table.  I never want to see anybody like that again.  I yelled out 'No!' and, not knowing where I was, just started kicking.

I don't know how, but when I hit the surface of the water and took my first breath, I still didn't know where I was.  As it was still snowing, all was dark.  I must have been facing south towards Lake Huron, east towards Bush, north twenty miles up south by southwest, and I could make out a bit of light.  I dog paddled toward the light.  Getting near the stern of a tugboat, I read the name Flo Cooper.  I swam up the side and could hear the engines.  I realized I worked on it.  Swimming around the bow, I heard voices and the chief yelled out.  Rick was holding onto a ladder that was tied off to the barge, but he couldn't get his feet up to the first rung.  So I reached up to grab the ladder.  This was the first time that I felt pain in my shoulders.  I got ahold of the ladder and, with my head under Rick's butt; I boosted him up to the barge.  I climbed up after and just remember looking up into the snow coming down through the lights.  The captain was giving me shit for going in the water and we changed our gear and went back to work.  As I was on shift until midnight, the only thing I remember was how hard it was turn the big steering wheel.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  DECEMBER  15?  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  CRUSHED BETWEEN A TUG BOAT AND BARGE  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A fellow crewman had fallen in the water and was going to be killed as his head was the only thing that the tug was going to make contact with.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I said goodbye to my family.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I said goodbye to my family.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A friend of mine, Bruce, just off to my right.  He said, 'It's okay.  Relax.  You're welcome.' and was guiding me into the light.  I found out on Christmas Eve as we were driving home and my mother told me that Bruce had drowned a couple of months ago.  I couldn't say a word.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The most welcoming glow, like going back into the womb.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       'So that's it' as I said goodbye.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   CATHOLIC

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The light is there for everyone.  The light is love and death is love.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   KNOWER

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The light is there for everyone.  The light is love and death is love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've had problems with employment because I can't seem to get interested in anything.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes, because of how much I wanted to go into the light and how I couldn't.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Sometimes we are given a choice.  I just don't know why I made it back here and Bruce didn't.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In 1991, when I was becoming suicidal, I went to talk to Bruce's brother and told him about Bruce and how he was there for me.  I can't remember, but we both shed a few tears.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      It couldn't happen because I was down the bay 300 to 600 yards?  How long was I under water, 15 minutes or 30?  No way!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is life after death.  But then again, there is no such thing as death.  I think a part of me is in that light and I've been only partly here on earth since 1973.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to see near death experiences taught in schools, and not under any religious connotations.  They happen all the time.  I feel horrible that I had a hard time understanding my experience, and so much pain could have been avoided if I would have been honest.  I worked on tugs for another 25 years and drove myself and others insane.  I was still in denial.


      Experience Description 2230:   

I was working as a deckhand on a tug-boat and as we tied up to the barge I jumped off to connect the batteries to the running lights. While I was doing so, I heard a yell from the tug from the chief, Bill. I ran back and Bill was looking down. I looked and saw Rick was coming up.  He was in the water. As soon as I could, I grabbed for him. With the snow that was falling I was close to slipping in too as I was reaching down at least four feet. The tug was a couple feet off and by that time the first mate was kneeling on my legs so I wouldn't slip in. The tug was getting closer and as the rubbing fenders were the only things that were going to connect on Rick's head I couldn't let him go; so I squared my shoulders, held his hand, and let the tug start to squeeze me.

All I can remember is I was scared because I couldn't get out. Then I thought my ribs were going to mesh in with each other and I kept thinking the tug would have to stop soon, only I didn't know why it wasn't stopping. I thought my head was going pop off and then Bruce (a friend who had passed away two months earlier) said, 'Hello Donnie,' just like the way he did in high school. I said hello and trusted him completely. I was then drifting beside him. He guided me to a beautiful white light and a swirling tunnel.

Things seemed to speed up and like a flash, my whole life seemed to go by. I saw a body on a beach and I knew it was mine. I asked what was happening. A voice came back and said, 'You are drowning.' Then I saw my mother and my sisters Lorna and Mary-Lou crying at the kitchen table and I screamed out, 'No!' I didn't know which way to flail but when I hit the surface of the water I took an awful big breath of air.

It was probably close to ten o'clock at night and snowing heavy. The visibility wasn't too good so I guess I looked south first. All I could see was black, east, same thing, same thing north, and then west and I could just make out a bit of light. I don't remember much from that point, only as I got closer to the light I read the name on the back of a boat 'Flo' and as I swam up to the side of it I heard the engines and with a shock said, 'You work there.' As I swam around the bow, I heard voices and Bill the chief engineer yelled out, 'Donald!' My name came back to my mind and as I got closer, Rick was hanging on a steel ladder. He couldn't get his feet up so I reached up, first time I felt any pain, and with my arms grabbed onto the ladder. I put my head under Rick's butt and we both made it onto the barge. There were big snowflakes and I was on my knees looking up, all I could see was snow. Then I was embarrassed in front of all my co-workers. I don't remember anything after that except when I was on a shift, after we got left with a tow, and my shoulders could barely turn the wheel.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 December   1973  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was trying to save someone from getting their head crushed and instead got myself squeezed until the last thing I remember was my head was going to pop off.  My co-worker and friend had fallen in the water off a tug-boat and was going to be crushed between the tug and the barge we were tied up to. I tried to rescue him and ended up in the water myself, drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I thought my head was going to pop off.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     When I came up out of the water I was wearing work boots, coveralls, leather jacket, and my shoulders were not working. I don't remember swimming back until I read the name on the boat. After all these years I would say I drifted two to three hundred yards under the water before I came up.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was open and I was going but after asking and seeing my mother crying I yelled no and I woke up under the water.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Bruce was on my right and said hello like he would in high school as he was a couple of years older. I looked up to him and when he said it's okay I trusted him with my life. Then he motioned with his arm and I was going into this white tunnel.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bruce let by him and said it's okay you are welcome and the white light and tunnel was there.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Trusting Bruce and the peace and then seeing my body on shore and my mother crying and in horror I said no.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that there is an afterlife.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   My own  I do know that the light is there.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that there is an afterlife.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Twenty years after seeing a friend of mine who had passed away two months before my experience I finally went and told his brother that Bruce had made it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know that even when I was twenty-one I was welcome to enter the other side.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think it was close to twenty years before I told Bruce's brother about how I believe that Bruce made it to the other side. It was hard and I think Robert handled it as well as he could.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I didn't believe.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     By not believing it possible for twenty years I continued to work on boats until, after many nervous break-downs, I have Post traumatic problems and manic depression. I wish I could have been able to talk about it earlier but thought people would think I was insane.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      </span>  </p>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_m_nde.html