{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Don R NDE21883","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don R NDE21883  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1702 Don R NDE 21883  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I locked my keys in my car. I got a ride to town but couldn't get any help and took a taxi back.  I apparently got into an argument with the taxi driver and he must have hit me with a black jack.  I woke up later on the side of the freeway and could see my car on the other side of the freeway (four lanes each way).  I couldn't get across and eventually someone parked behind my car and broke out the window.  I yelled for them to stop. The next thing I knew, I was crossing the freeway with cars going up to eighty miles per hour toward me.  I crossed two lanes, then a third, and the car in the fourth lane was braking for me. When I realized that I was going to be run over, I jumped up on the hood of the car with my elbow and my head hit the windshield.   

As soon as this happened, I later remembered yelling, ‘Let me back in, let me back in’.  The doctor later told me I had retrograde amnesia and had events confused. 

Apparently, the split second that my head hit the windshield and I started yelling, I had an out of body experience. I felt myself hovering above my body about ten feet up.  I remember a white light but I think that was from the black jack.  But I do remember that God spoke to me and said to come with Him.  I said, ‘No, I want to marry and have a son and daughter.’ I put that wish in the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem nine years later.  I have been happily married for twenty-one years with a daughter and son.

I also remember Him telling me to walk to Port Arthur, Texas (my hometown) and don't look back. 

That's it.  I had a mild concussion and burst some blood vessels in my arm. I recovered. 

In 2002, I went into a ten day diabetic coma. I am now sixty-seven and partially paralyzed on my left side from having a very high blood sugar level.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 22, 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hit by car while trying to cross freeway on foot.  I was hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Conscious except for a brief moment.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was surreal.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I felt God's presence.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     God, He asked me to come with Him.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was white. Bright, but soft.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, joy, and fear of the unknown.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That I could have gone to heaven at the time but wanted to have a family first.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wanted to live. I wasn't ready to die.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a firm belief in an afterlife.  
     
After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is living another 33 years, getting married and have a son and daughter.  The worst was being hospitalized after the accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One woman I told this to on a commercial airline asked if she could touch me.  An attorney friend of my suggested that I had an out of body experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_r_nde.html