{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Don C NDE 4009","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don C NDE 4009  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1921 Don C NDE 4009  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was fifteen years old, I had a bad deformity of my upper jaw. So my grandparents made arrangements to have an experimental surgery done. This surgery had only been done four times prior to this. While being operated on the surgeon severed an artery in my neck and I bleed to death. I remember floating in the corner of the room above the operating table looking down at myself wondering what was going on.

Then all of a sudden I was pulled through this tunnel to a white light where I found myself standing on this golden brick road leading up to some kind of building that had twelve pillars along the side and front with steps leading up to a personage seated on a throne. This person got up and came down the stairs and down the road to me. All around me, I could see and feel a beautiful peace and tranquility with love and peace. I had no care in the world. Also as far as the eye could see to my left was a beautiful landscape of tulips of every color imaginable. To my right was a wall of a beautiful blue that matched the sky. I could not see beyond these barriers.

When the person reached me, we spoke through thought. He told me that it was not my time to enter into my heavenly home but had a mission to fulfill and my life was going to be very hard. That I would go through many terrible experiences to the point of wanting to commit suicide but if I committed suicide I would not be allowed to come home. He told me that I would be watched over and protected, kept safe. If I would get through this mission, I would be allowed to return home. Then he waved his hand, a window in the wall to my right opened, and I could see my mother sitting in a chair in the hospital hallway crying. Then another window opened next to it.  We stepped through it and into the kitchen of my home.  We were standing on the kitchen floor behind my mother and she was at the kitchen sink peeling potatoes.

The next thing I remember was waking up in a hospital bed. I spent six months in the hospital then released. I have had several experiences since then. Like when I was seventeen years old. I was out partying and four friends and I were going down a dirt road in a triumph convertible at 103 mph and he swerved hit the shoulder of the road into a tree. The car shot up the tree in the air flipping backwards and smashing into the ground it threw me five hundred yards in the air and out into a hay field. As I was falling, I was caught by someone in the convertible top of the car and lowered to the ground. When I got to the hospital I found out that I had hit the tree and ripped my liver but if I would have ripped it a quarter of an inch more it would have killed me.

Then I joined the Marine Corp and went to Vet Nam where I fought in the infantry. I went through several battles somewhere we were overrun by the enemy with soldiers dying all around me bullets flying past me but never once was I worried or afraid. I was blown out of a house in Wai City when we were fighting in house to house and I was wounded. I found out that I had a sixth sense about others and death, I was able to tell if someone else was going to die. When I came home from Vietnam, I was stationed in California. I went to a party on the beach. When everyone else left I decided to go swimming it was about 6:00 pm. I knew nothing about the tide's going out at that time, as I swam I was pulled out into the ocean. When I look up, I could not see the shore. So I started to swim back and being trained in the Corp I was trained to swim in the ocean but I could not get back, I was being pulled out faster than I could swim in. Finally, I felt a peace come over me and I felt a presence with me then everything went blank and I came to, a quarter of a mile down the beach, lying face down in the sand.

Since then I have had many thing bad happen to me to the points of suicide due to post-traumatic stress disorder, drugs and alcohol. I have tried to tell my story to others but religions and others dismiss it. I have been in several religious organizations and searched my whole life to find my mission and purpose in life but I still don't know what I am to do. I do a lot to help others who are going through the things I have and that is very satisfying, I wish I could do more to help. I have no idea why the spirit moved me to this page, there must be a reason because I have found that you always listen to the spirit when it speaks.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At all times.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As I was floating in the room I was pulled through a tunnel into the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a person sitting on a throne. They came to me down a golden road and talked to me telepathically.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light just before I emerged in the other world.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The beautifulest peacefull place with tolopes as fare as the eye could see along side a briliant golden brick road.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, joy, tranquility and serenity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That I would go through an extremely bad life and experiences that would cause me at times to want to commit suicide. Also that in the future there would come a time when the people on this earth would rise up in some kind of revolution or racial war that will mark the end of my time cause it will end things as we know it causing another country to take control of this country. I can see this happening know in this country.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was not allowed to see or cross beyond the wall to my right or the flowers to my left or beyond the building where the personage was seated.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   LDS Mormin

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I would go through an extremely bad life and experiences that would cause me at times to want to commit suicide. Also that in the future there would come a time when the people on this earth would rise up in some kind of revolution or racial war that will mark the end of my time because it will bring an end to things as we know it causing another country to take control of this country.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to read people's inner self, like I can tell what is going on with them, I can feel their pain and emotional state. I can tell if they are a good person or bad. I use this to help them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My mother was a focal point of all this but what that means I have not yet figured it out.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was years and when I did they didn't believe me, said it was drug induced - to that there is no way such a thing could have happened so it's been a long time, till now, since I have talked about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real but because of the length of stay and strong drugs they gave me and my youth I soon put it in the back of my mind till some years later when I started to have experiences with the spirit speaking to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it's real I still remember it like it just happened yesterday. I can remember every detail very vividly. I can't remember a lot of things in my life that has happened as clearly as I can this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_c_nde.html