{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Don A NDE 142","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don A NDE 142  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Don A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						574  Don A NDE  142  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was lying on a bed in the emergency room talking to two nurses, when I paused and closed my eyes.


When I opened my eyes, I was standing in front of a half glass door, with crinkle-like glass that lets light through but you cannot see through. There was a brilliant light beyond the door. I was standing with my left arm extended upwards to push the door open. I could feel the warmth of the light and was drawn to it.


I thought to myself, ‘If I go through the door, I will not want to come back.’, so I dropped my arm, and as I did, I noticed that it was not the arm I had looked at all my life. It appeared to be almost transparent. I then took one large step back away from the door. From this position, I could see that the door was not attached to a wall but was hanging in a freestanding frame only and the light was all around it.


I was then startled (not frightened or perceiving a threat) to see the light take shape (like smoke or cloud), then suddenly come around and over the door towards me. It seemed to wrap itself around me and as it did I felt a tingling all over, and the words came to me (not sure if spoken), ‘All things of the Earth will pass away.’ I then began to feel a great love and a peace that was indescribable. It felt as if the light was lifting me.


I closed my eyes for a moment and bathed in this love and great peace. When I opened my eyes again, I was looking at my wife and two nurses. The worst of my medical emergency was several hours away, and I feel the peace I found during my NDE helped me to survive, along with the efforts of a great medical team.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    November 12, 1995

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Near fatal heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt as though I occupied a similar space but not in a physical way. Meaning I had limbs (arms and legs) and seemed to move in a similar manner but with what seemed a more fluid motion.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt very alert through the entire experience.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard no sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Brilliant, warm, inviting, loving. It was as if the light was alive.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Great joy, true peace, and unending love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Half glass door.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Insufficient vocabulary.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       My experience was completely a positive one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have received mixed reactions and cannot say that anyone was influenced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Eight years prior to my experience, I had what I would have to call a prophetic dream. During the course of my treatment at the hospital, I had an experience that sent chills up my spine because it was exactly as I had seen in the dream.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_a_nde.html