{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1don_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Don D NDE 16073","mylang":"de"}
          	        Don D NDE 16073  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Don D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3748 Don D NDE 16073  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had an after-life experience at age 5.

At the time, I believed people only died when they were old and God wanted them to.

I believed that heaven was in the clouds, surrounded by a large fence with a gate and St. Peter sitting behind a desk checking to see if you came in or not.  And that you probably received a notice by mail telling you it was time to pack your suitcase to come to heaven, at which point you might report to an escalator for the ride up. 

I had been hospitalized and was in intensive care.  They could not figure out what exactly was wrong with me, but vital signs were critical. Upon leaving my body, I rose high above the earth – to maybe about 50-60,000 feet (higher than I’ve since flown in a plane).  It was high enough to see the curvature of the earth clearly.  And I could see lights from cities across the Atlantic.  I was physically there, but not cold and felt no wind.  Immediately, I understood that all those people in all those many places were connected; we were one regardless of language and nationality.  I could see the blue of the atmosphere as the sun passed through it.  At the time, I do not believe I had ever seen any pictures of anything like this in the past.     

Next thing I know, I am inside a tunnel.  The tunnel is pitch black; I can see nothing.  It is cold.  It is full of extremely threatening, evil people that hated me, taunted me, and wished to do me serious harm.  I got the feeling that they were there forever…without warmth, without any life, just an existence of being surrounded by other evil, bitter people with no purpose or hope….shut out and extremely jealous and malevolent.    Someone took my hand, a man, and he said “Don’t worry, they can’t hurt you as long as you are with me” to reassure me.  Although I was a little wary of them still, I completely trusted what he said.   We progressed upward and forward through the tunnel – not walking, simply floating along in the pitch dark. 

Suddenly, we came out of the tunnel into the light, and turning around, you could see the entrance to the tunnel.  It was in the face of a rocky hillside or mountain, not unlike earth (though I had never seen a mountain before – I had that experience later).  I knew I was not on earth, and that we had travelled a great distance - and I wondered where I was.  Immediately, I know that this is another place in the universe, just like earth is a planet in space, this is another place in space.  This fact simply enters my mind.  It comes from the man next to me.  But I do not believe that he spoke.  He simply put that knowledge into my mind.   

I look around, and down a hill I see a valley with a city in it.  I am immediately completely happy and full of peace, and I know I belong here and want nothing more than to go there and stay there forever.  The city glows with the most beautiful light.    

I want to go there.  Then I realize that I have been separated from my family, and wonder about them.  Instantly I understand that they are OK – that we know exactly where they are at, and that they will be coming to join me later in only a fairly short time and we will all be together again.  I immediately understand and totally accept that, and being separated from my mother does not bother me in the least, despite still being a young child.  

The man with me is very tall and thin.  Looking straight ahead, I am looking at his legs just above the knees.  I had a brother who was very tall and thin.  Initially, I thought this man was my brother. 

I wondered what was in the beautiful city below, and if there were any trees there like on earth.  Without moving, suddenly I could see a street level view from within the city.  Not only were there many trees, but they were sublimely beautiful.  They were extremely colorful….in a palette of colors that does not exist on earth.  I was immediately struck by how beautiful these colors were….and how odd it was that they were almost intense in the sense that neon colors were, yet somehow struck you as being as mild as pastel and perfectly coordinated.   I marveled at how very much more beautiful the color palette was there than it was on earth.    

I started to move toward the city. I do not think I was walking, I think I simply floated in response to wanting to be there.  Then the man next to me put his hand on my shoulder, and informs me ‘you have to go back.’  I was not at all happy about this, and I looked up at him – and discovered it was not my brother, but another man I had never seen - who was very tall and thin, and looked somewhat like my brother but was someone else.    

Before I could protest, I was back in the hospital.  And the next morning, the problem I was hospitalized for had, according to the doctors, miraculously gone away.  

The next morning, I told my parents that I had gone to heaven that night, that I had seen the earth from above.  I was extremely excited about it.  My mother said I must have dreamed, and I was insistent that it was no dream – I had actually physically gone there.  I was so excited about it, I talked of little else for the coming weeks.  The day afterwards, my parents brought me a stuffed dog as a present….and I immediately named him “Erfy” (earthy) to mark my wonder at having seen the earth from space and understood its size and that it was covered with a great many peoples that were really all one separated by the insignificant difference of language.   I couldn’t help noticing how very drab all the colors on earth were.  

That is all I remember…..and it has been so long ago, at this point I simply remember second hand what I clearly remembered for many years after this incident.   

Since that time, I have had some very minor and occasional but nonetheless seemingly recurrent occasional psychic abilities.  

For instance, pulling over the car on the commute home during a rainstorm because I knew I was about to receive a phone call telling me that my father had died, even though at the time he was supposedly fine and we were told he could live for another 10 years.  The call came two minutes later.  Running down the mountain trail in Yosemite park to call home and ask about our childhood dog right after he had passed away.  Cancelling a weekend getaway to New York scheduled a couple of days before 9/11 due to having had an extremely upsetting nightmare about descending steps in the Statue of Liberty in the pitch dark while planes attacked it and Manhattan (shooting), and the statue collapsed before everyone got out.  Feeling the need to call home immediately to see if everything was OK when I was in another city, just as a tornado topped a hill a mile from the family house.  Stopping to dig for no reason in the outdoors and unearthing a key and horseshoe that must have been dropped and been buried 100+ years before.  And stopping my car at a rest stop on the freeway to tell my stock broker to sell everything only a day or two before the last market collapse.    

In every one of these cases, I wasn’t trying to figure this info out.  Suddenly, it just entered my head as an incontrovertible fact – I simply realized or ‘knew’ each of these facts and had no doubt whatsoever about them.  These revelations are not frequent, and are not available on demand.  Occasionally, it just happens.  Maybe once every year or two.  When it happens, there is immediately no doubt in my mind concerning the fact that has just entered it.  I’ve always felt that this was somehow an ‘artifact’ of the after death experience.  

I know this experience varies from other experiences I've seen documented.  But have never doubted this in the least. I've never been overtly religious and had no information that would have biased me toward dreaming this.  It absolutely flew in the face of everything that I was taught to believe about heaven and death up to that time.   				    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1don_d_nde.html