{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dominique_v_fde.html","mytitle":"Dominique V FDE 6648","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dominique V FDE 6648  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dominique V FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3317 Dominique V FDE 6648  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving in open country that morning, heading towards the village of Saint-Romain on a small fairly straight narrow road, to go to my practice surgery, as usual. I was quite tired. I had a urinary infection which had dragged on for several weeks and which I was just treating by drinking a lot of water and herbal infusions. All of a sudden, a doe sprang up in front of the car. I braked.  

Then I had a strange turn and I left my body.  It was as though I was snapped up and over the roof of the car into an immense and serene light.  I began to rise above the car, which continued on its way at a good speed. At this point, the road had a slight bend and I said to myself, 'Hey, the car hasn't turned enough, that's weird!' At the same time, I felt as if I was flying.  It was nice and enjoyable. I didn't really care about the car that looked like it was getting smaller and smaller. 

When I again looked down at the car, it still wasn't slowing down. I suddenly realized that it was my car, that I had not turned the wheel enough, and that I was heading straight for a large linden tree. As I saw myself from above driving the car without any fear, I said to myself, 'Domi, brake!! Turn the wheel, or you'll hit the tree!'

But the car did not brake, nor did it turn.  It slid into the ditch at the same speed and struck a low stone wall below the level of the road just before hitting the tree. The wall was lifted and thrown onto the road 10 meters further on, the car bouncing back on the road, completely crushed.

Then (how much later I couldn't say), I became aware of struggling for breath and coughing.  I was surrounded by the airbags, which were torn to bits. My watch was broken; my cell phone was in two pieces. I felt nothing was wrong with me. This is what I thought: 'Wow! My car is wrecked, Jean-Marie (my husband) will be really mad, he won't be able to fix it!!' I wasn't thinking about myself, and I got out of the opposite side where the door was still working. I wasn't shaking; I had no fear nor pain. I felt good, and leaning my back against the tree I put my cell phone back together and it was working. I called Jean-Marie and told him I had smashed the car but I was OK.  I wanted him to give me a lift to my practice surgery. He thought I was strange after such a shock, and wanted to take me home to the farmhouse. But I was insistent, telling him I was OK, and that I was going to work.  As time passed, I felt the pains start. It turned out I had a fractured sternum, a large hematoma on my forehead, other bruises, showing black, on my left buttock, left knee and left shoulder.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  18 Sept 2009
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   Je crois que la Vie est Une , que seul les formes separes  du plan physique nous donnent l' impression de la separativite et nous passons notre vie a rechercher  cette Unite des Vies multiples manifestees sur Terre

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I already, from other experiences, had a great faith in the unity of life and that, being one, it will never end. It simply takes other forms.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   La religion est un outil au service des hommes  pour apprehender l ' unite des Vies  multiples et le principes d' Amour qui regit notre Univers ... Je ne suis pas religieuse  mais je suis  profondement croyante dans une vision  Unitaire du regne humain , comme celle de chaque autre regne , vegetal , mineral , animal ,planetaire ou stellaires

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Je ne pensais pas pouvoir vivre  2 choses a 2 endroits au meme moment

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     oui parce que vu le choc , j' aurai du avoir mal immediatement ou etre dans un etat de panique  immense alors que je suis sortie en enjambant les sieges avant du vehicule sans aucun mal malgre les fractures , et apres avoir cherche a l' arriere du vehicul

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Oui ,Je sentais que j' etais completement protegee que ce soit alors que je volais dans les airs ( en conscience ) ou alors que je suis revenue a  moi dans la voiture

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I live much more in the present moment and therefore feel myself more present in Life. I believe most of all that I love Life even more.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I trust life, for myself, but also for all those I love and care for. I think I am wiser and more patient than ever.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Tout est reste extremement clair dans ma tete , que ce soient les visions , comme mes pensee durant l' experience : il y avait une acuite des sens que j' aimerais bien avoir dans la vie de tous les jours

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Yes. I am much more intuitive, I have detailed dreams showing some of what will happen the next day, for example, or in the days following. I understand people much better, what makes them tick, I can easily understand them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was a kind of loving understanding in the universe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband straight away, as he was taking me back to my practice surgery.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have been close to the dying process several times.  Once, in the company of a female patient in her home, I had a sort of shared death experience.  I had a change of consciousness on the third day after she died. It was ten years previously.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes in the sexual act I feel that state of ecstasy.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Ordinarily the slightest threat of an auto accident makes me shake with my whole being, but in this case I looked on the whole scene as if it did not concern me at all, though I knew all along that I was in fact involved.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dominique_v_fde.html