{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dirk_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Dirk D NDE 3088","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dirk D NDE 3088  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dirk D NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1540 Dirk D NDE 3088  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 1980, I was riding in a car which was involved in a tragic accident.  Three of the five occupants lost their lives. I suffered a subdural hematoma (internal bleeding between the skull and brain) that urgently needed to be drained. In the hospital, I was transported in a comatose or semi-comatose state (I can't remember) to an operating room. This transfer was done via an underground hallway from one small building to another.

I remember floating above the stretcher and looking down seeing someone lying under a sheet, and realized that it must be me. Several orderlies were pushing the bed. At the same time, I noticed the tiles along the hallway and the armatures on the ceiling that served the fluorescent lighting. (Later when coincidentally I found work in this same hospital I happened to walk through the underground passage and I remembered the area from previously when I had been out of body.)

This is all I can remember, but because I was in a coma for a week and at least another week semi-comatose. I'm sure I was passing that time somewhere other than in my body. Others mention they have witnessed a change in me. It's as if I'm being guided by directions from above.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  augustus 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't remember.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't remember.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Except for the attending orderlies, I'd don't remember seeing anyone else.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       As far as I can remember I was fairly passive about the whole experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before I was a believer and a Catholic, but since this I'm simply a believer. There is a Supreme Being, but that could just as well be God or Allah or Buddha or whatever He/She/It might be named.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I was a believer and a Catholic, but since this I'm simply a believer. There is a Supreme Being, but that could just as well be God or Allah or Buddha or whatever He/She/It might be named.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel convinced of there being 'something more' than what observable life shows us. I can't explain it although my newfound interest in near death experiences and life after death in general has been born out of this.  I can't say for sure why, but after this incident I've changed completely. Whereas before I was a bit of a loose cannon, since this I've matured by several years. My ideas about life are different now as well as my attitude toward the former life. Where I was once negative now I'm positive. In other words, I've become very hungry for knowledge and scarcely satisfied by the things I take interest in, read and investigate.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not long afterwards I began to relate my experience to others. Their doubtful responses were rightly understandable.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I've said, there is 'something more.' It can be no other way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dirk_d_nde.html