{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dolly_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Dolly M Probable NDE 7640","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dolly M Probable NDE 7640  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dolly M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3921 Dolly M Probable NDE 7640  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In December of 1979, I was attending a National Guard weekend drill. Went to eat lunch and once the food went into my stomach I became over taken by pain all over. I went to the bathroom to empty out and I could not release the pain. I had wanted a co-worker to take me to hospital but she had a date to see her boyfriend. I could not get a hold of my boyfriend who was cheating on me with another girl in my car. 

A co-worker dropped me off at my home where I lived with my father and mother. When I entered my home no one was there. I wanted to call 911 but I could not get the breath out so I crawled up to my bedroom so I could die on my bed. For whatever reason my dad, who never ever went into my bedroom, had a prompting to check on me in my room when he arrived at home with my stepmom (mother). When my dad entered my bedroom he thought I was having a heart attack because I was holding my heart and could not speak very loud. 

My father rushed me to emergency after finding me on my bed; pale and having a difficult time breathing. He carried me to the car and rushed me into the emergency room right away. I was going in and out of consciousness. When I arrived at the hospital, they were not sure what the problem was. I was misdiagnosed at first because I was young and strong and still wearing my National Guard uniform at the time in the emergency room. We are more advance with medical equipment in this day and age. A new doctor examined me and said he would do an exploratory laparoscopy procedure. 

I had a cyst on each ovary and they both had ruptured so I was slowly bleeding inside my abdomen. I was bleeding inside the whole day until I ate and it moved my blood around in my abdomen and that is when the overwhelming pain began and lasted until I fell in the bathroom in the emergency room right before emergency surgery. 

The emergency room was a very cold and unkind place. As a staff member was wheeling me into surgery, I asked to go to the bathroom. When I entered the bathroom I do not ever remember returning to the stretcher. I do remember falling in the bathroom. 

That is when I went through the most healing light. It was warm, loving, and peaceful. I was surrounded by spirits all around me. I was so happy not to feel any more pain both physically and emotionally. I knew it was another realm and not here on earth. I had lost 1600 cc of blood. The doctor was excited that he saved my life. 

The next day when I woke up I was depressed to find myself back in my body. I was depressed when I realized I was sent back to this world.

After a few months I started to get dreams that came true usually within 3 days. One young lady told me because 3 is a powerful number in the Bible. If it is after three days I chalk it up to coffee or a negative movie. 

I hope this helps. With all that was against me that day I knew without a doubt it was a higher power that wanted its plans accomplished. It all seemed choreographed. I could not find a ride to the hospital, my father never ever entered my bedroom and I will never know what drew my father to my room that day. I could not speak loud enough to call 911. My boyfriend was not reachable because he was out without another girl. Finally it was not my will to return. 

After my experience, I went to school to be a medical assistant. I am now a certified surgical tech. I work for the doctor who saved my life. Blessings and love Dolly

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December of 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   GYN: I lost 1600cc of blood right before exploratory laparoscopy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost its meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clear and beautiful

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Meanings are conveyed without words

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A place of complete safety, love, no condemnation.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria can never be experienced here in this world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     No explanation needed. It just is. Totally presence of the now, no more and no less.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Christian Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I always knew there was a higher power loving us.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Christian Catholic  New Age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I thought we kept our body but we don't.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know without a doubt that God is greater than any prince or princess we put on a pedestal. No man has the right to my higher self: that is between me and God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Saints loving spirits

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There are no bodies, just loving spirits.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Loving guiding spirits all around me to love and heal me.  true healing.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was blessed to be in their presence. It makes me more of a fighter in this world because I know the world to follow. But I also pay big for speaking up against many forms of injustices here in this world.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Not at that moment but after wards I was given the gift of dreams.  If it happens within 3 days of my dream then I know the great supreme being is sending me a message.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Awareness of what heavens and the universe feel like.  Well done good and faithful servant.  Reward for learning to love.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     My dreams are a gift but there have been a few times when the dreams were very painful.  I become the person I am dreaming about and I feel their pain in the depths of my soul.  I asked God to take the dreams back because I could not share this with anyone unless they have gone through it.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Difficulties, challenges, hardships die off.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I never felt such unconditional love in my life here. I love the dreams with new births and ones when saints are going home.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life I get dreams that come true within three days.     Large changes in my life I get dreams that come true within three days.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Many have told me they never met anyone with my personality and that I am an inspiration to them. But at the time it is lonely in the physical presence.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Too beautiful for language to describe

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams spirits coming or going mostly. Some are for warning and prayers.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Healing from emotional trauma. Unconditional love

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some believe you and some think you are crazy. With their negative connotations, it makes me want to share less.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That experience has given or infused me with a spirit of fortitude. Of conviction not doubt about the other side of euphoric love.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You never ever become the same as before the event occurred.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I read æEmbraced by the LightÆ: A nurse I worked with in the operating room told me I needed to read it because I sound so much like the book. I did read it and it was correct.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When I came back from the experience I was very disappointed to be sent back. That all-consuming peace was difficult to leave behind. My dreams are a gift but there have been a few times when the dreams were very painful. I become the person I am dreaming about and I feel their pain in the depths of my soul. I asked God to take the dreams back because I could not share this with anyone unless they have gone through it. I passed with souls on both sides of me. They were loving and safe.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Speak on the depression when you return.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dolly_m_nde.html