{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1domi_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Domi L Probable NDE 7215","mylang":"de"}
          	        Domi L Probable NDE 7215  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Domi L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3667 Domi L Probable NDE 7215  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Following a car accident with my son, I fell into a coma.  I was suffering from cranial trauma, immediate amnesia, open fractured anklebone, as well as trauma everywhere in the body. A gap of one month of my life is missing, yet at the time I seemed to speak normally with people, as I was told later.

During that period, I had an NDE. I really spoke about it to a doctor, who belongs to the IANDS association, some three years ago.

I didn't dare to speak about it, for fear of being considered crazy. To be able to talk about it liberated me from this 'secret'.

I went into the tunnel of light. I had no body. I felt a well-being, as such that does not exist on earth. I had neither sentiment nor past. On the other side of the tunnel, I felt millions of presences, that also had no sentiments, but who were feeling neither bad nor good. They didn't know evil anymore. On the other hand, I didn't see any animals. 

Then I was stopped by the superior Power.  The Power was telling me through telepathy that I was lacking something, and that I should protect it. I knew that I had to do what I was told, whether or not I wanted to do so.  Otherwise, I could go no further. I had no choice but to follow what I was called upon to do. What I was missing was Faith.  What I had to protect, I still don't know or I did it already without knowing.

The feeling I had about this is; it is not we who choose what follows.  One has to have good behavior on earth, and one should not commit suicide as our departure is being decided up there. I wasn't ready, and I lacked knowledge in spirituality. The feeling I had is that one should leave the souls of deceased people in peace. Some have other things to do up there. It's another form of life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  juin 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other: trauma cranien et comma

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the month that followed the accident!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't need sunglasses anymore, despite the intense light, while before I was wearing them since the age of 14.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When the superior power talked to me I didn't need hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It's lightning. There are no words to describe it, but I was advancing at the speed of light when I went there and it slowed down when the superior power (God) talked to me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brighter than the sun.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A well-being that does not exist on earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm a witness and I'm talking about faith in God, not with the bible, but with my experience.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     il n'y a plus ni le bien ni le mal, plus de sentiment

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have faith and do everything to turn people towards the good, and I'm witnessing.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   God, by his presence or the superior power. I knew that if I wanted to continue or to stay, He was the decision-maker.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   dieu mais par sa présence ou la force supérieure.Je savais que si je voulais continuer ou rester c'était lui le décideur

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     la force supérieure qui m'a fait repartir car je manquai de connaissance et il faut le protéger (mais qui?) et il me manquait quelque chose

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     je l'ai expliqué précedemment

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When I was descending back, the more I approached earth, the more I felt the compressed presences that seemed to be being turned into light, without sentiments, neither bad nor good.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     la connaissance et la spiritualité

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     une vie mais sans corps donc l'âme

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     la connaissance et la spiritualité,

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     j'ai du retourné ar je n'avais pas assez d'expérience de la vie notamment sur la bétise humaine.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     ni le bien ni le mal, plus de sentiments.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have feelings towards others that I didn't have before, and I tell things like a good Samaritan.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I was upsetting those that didn't believe and made other encounters.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sensations you have do not exist on earth.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am Clairvoyant and I served as an intermediary. The more I came back towards people, the fewer gifts I had. I knew things that I never learned and others that I was hiding. The superior power exists and we have to do what it is saying.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most significant are the messages I got and the return. I felt what was on the other side, even if I was not going as far as the light, and I believe that, at a certain moment, I knew that I had to come back. I was lacking knowledge, but knew that I would have a hard time on earth, and also that I had to get through it. I knew also that earth is nothing in comparison to what follows.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I vaguely related it within evangelic churches to ministers, but mainly to the doctor, three years ago.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was spoken to, but not like on earth, and I only remember that. Yet after my accident I talked to people and have no memory of it anymore, as if I had been two people at that time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Everything happened as I had been feeling it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1domi_l_probable_nde.html