{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1doineau_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Doineau H NDE 664","mylang":"de"}
          	        Doineau H NDE 664  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Doineau H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						204  Doineau H NDE  664  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My mother heard muffled noises during her sleep. She found me in my bed, purplish, struggling, and then, nothing; I was a doll in the arms of my mother. Heart arrest due to suffocation.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June/July 1975

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessAllergic reaction  Convulsions followed by suffocation with my tongue, Clinical death, cardiac and breathing arrest for a few minutes.  Clinical death I was choking in my bed because during my first convulsion I had swallowed my tongue.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Not a form but rather the feeling of having no body. A sphere of light, I would say.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Nearly none. I was very young, I must admit.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time had not yet any grip on the nine month baby I was, but no time passing by around me.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard a melodic noise that I do not completely find in the music I listen to.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Not beings per se but rather 'denser' lights, more vivid than the surrounding light. Not flashes, rather 'clouds of light'.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A melodic noise that I do not completely find in the music I listen to.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A landscape full of light and softness, compassion, understanding. The most pastel of pastel tones ever seen.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I had the feeling that I belonged to this world not as much as a being but rather as photon within the surrounding light.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Love before anything else, before yourself because the light of others brightens up yours.  The good that is done unto others comes back to the person who does it. To love and to be loved can erase any physical or mental pain. Death is nothing else than the regret for not having understood.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I feel events coming forward; I know what’s good for people. But I prefer not to intervene because everyone’s freewill distorts everything and is quite illogical, let’s say it is not in resonance with my logic.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Regrets about coming back even if I did not have anything to say when I arrived over there. And that my presence here seems more important, to me or to the others.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Not baptized, Christian mother but not practicing.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I’m not able to find a religion that would laud the feelings I experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I refuse to believe to a religion built on human writings. The human being is by nature imperfect and therefore untrustworthy, indeed weak.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Impossible to find words intense enough or wrong understanding of the words used resulting in false communication.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I know how to use a Tarot deck but I hate to do it. I feel the bad things coming forward.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feeling of this awesome love that surrounded me and the pain of not being able to feel it anymore. Even if sometimes when sharing with other living beings, or within a simple contemplation of nature, I can briefly feel it - weaker but it’s there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not convinced, like you. But, knowing me, forced to admit that I’m completely different. Too gentle. They do not know about this mail.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Suffocation due to convulsions during sleep (very rarely), meditation (more or less effective).

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1doineau_h_nde.html