{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dominic_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Dominic Possible NDE 7458","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dominic Possible NDE 7458  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dominic Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3808 Dominic Possible NDE 7458  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience happened in two parts; I had an OBE during surgery and an NDE after the operation. It's important for me to also tell about my OBE as I had an encounter in it. Some days before this I had a dream where a man presented himself to me to tell me that I ‘would see them all.’ At the moment, I really didn't understand this. 

My OBE: 

I will always remember this day of March 15, 2011. The previous day I entered hospital almost like an emergency, as I had a quite advanced cancer of my left kidney. This morning on the 15th when I was waking up, I was very anxious as everybody does just before an important surgery, I assume. But there I was thinking again about this dream and I was slightly scared as I didn't know more. In short, I had to prepare as they were coming to pick me up for surgery. In the preparation room, I started to pray, as I never did since quite some time not since my second communion.  So, this was a long time ago. I started to ask for the protection of my guide, of my angel, God and his Sons, the one of my loved ones who were already on the other side. I asked protection to all those I could. I held a part of a towel that a nurse gave me, as I also had a tough cold and flu, I felt really bad. 

Once in the surgery room, when the nurses were preparing me, one of them kept me from moving.  He started talking to me to make me relax.  He asked me what I liked to do in life.  Without thinking, I answered that I liked to help people around me and that it was important for me seeing them smile after I helped them. I didn't know that this would be very important later. Once everything was ready, the moment came when I had to go to sleep and that’s when everything started. 

During surgery, I was connected to a machine that took over but I didn't really understand what the anesthesiologist told me. Suddenly, without even feeling anything before, I found myself there in the surgery room. I asked myself what was going on, as I saw everybody working around the operating table. I said to myself, 'But what the hell is happening there? What are they doing? Why am I here? What happened?’ Then I went closer to see and there I caught a glimpse what they did, and then I understood.  I told myself that there on the table was me. At first I thought that I was dead, but then I told myself that, ‘No, otherwise I would have seen them trying to reanimate me.  All is normal’. 

So I was moving a bit around in the room until I noticed something, there was one person staring at me and seeing me moving around. I wondered, 'Well, they even have a psychic nurse,' as he was wearing white. I started to talk to him, he was at the other side of the table, but he did not answer. I insisted a bit, but still nothing. I didn't feel anything evil coming from him, quite the reverse. Then I decided to stop talking to him and continued to watch what the surgeon and the other persons were doing.  

Then by curiosity, I wanted to look beyond the room. Without noticing it, I went through a wall to find myself in a corridor where I saw a crouching and crying person. Then I came back into the surgery room, and then suddenly, nothing anymore.  At least I have no further memory of the rest. I think that this was the moment when I woke up because that is what the nurses told me later.  I then fell back into sleep for three long hours. 

That's where My NDE started. I found myself in a white light, in the beginning wondering where I was, but then I understood. The strange thing is that at the beginning I didn't see the famous tunnel, could be that I passed it too fast or it simply wasn't there. This light is a bit difficult to explain, ground, ceiling and sides, there was nothing like this, as this light was a whole. It was not blinding, on the contrary, it was soft, calming, securing, and warm.  I can't compare it to anything: I had no pain, I felt good, fit, smiling. There was soft, angelic music. I sensed an immense love, I was enveloped by this place, and I felt that I was forgiven. I didn't see who was sending me all this love and who forgave me but I felt something Very High and protecting. 

While advancing I started to hear voices in the distance. I didn't understand what they were saying, but the voices were familiar. I recognized my grandfather, my stepfather who with my mother raised me from the age of six years until I left the house, and my father’s voice. 

In the distance, I saw something like dark shades in a human form. Imagine being in a fog, going forward, and then seeing the shady silhouette of a human form in the distance. Over there it was the same, except that there was no fog. 

I was very happy, and that's what I was, I started to advance faster. I didn't notice if I was walking or floating because I was so happy with the idea of seeing those that I missed. Suddenly from behind, I hear a voice saying, 'Come back, you still have to help lots of people.' This made me stop on the spot and I started to look for who could have said that. Then I thought about the nurse and what I told him earlier. They must be trying to wake me up and there I understood what happened to me, but what to do? Then a voice imposed on me, nobody was in front of me, it just imposed like this, to ask me what I wanted to do, ‘to continue or come back’. 

I noticed that my relatives in the distance had stopped talking together, maybe they wondered what happened or maybe they knew already; when they talked together, they maybe wondered what I was doing here, and who between them would tell me. Then I crouched to think for a moment, should I continue my way and join my loved ones or come back to join my living relatives. I know, some will think that I'm stupid, everybody would come back, but I missed my loved ones very much, I wanted to see them again, but I also didn't want to let down my living relatives. I stood up and took the decision that my heart dictated. I came back, but before leaving, I lifted my hand in the direction of my grandfather, my stepfather and my father to tell them ‘bye for now’. I had no time to get near them, but at least I know that they are there. As I was retracing my steps, I suddenly felt sucked in. It was then that I noticed this famous tunnel, and then I re-entered into my body and awoke. The anesthesiologist and the nurse were quite happy that I finally awakened.

In the following days I felt a little bit lost and felt that something in me had changed. Gradually I became aware about what I had experienced. I remembered that, at the moment when I was died, I perceived somebody in the distance who was crouching on the spot where I had been the moment before. I have done a lot of thinking about who this could have been, but the answer was there, close by.  This crouching person was my former me, like a symbol, saying, ‘well you are going back from where you came, but you will be different, the former me will be kept here’. 

Since then, years have gone by and this symbol made perfect sense all this time. I could notice that effectively I'm much more patient, calm, listening to people of all ages, as before. I'm able to get solutions to problems that I could not before. I also got empathy that I didn't have before. One has to know that before those changes I was a most unpleasant person, very irascible, somebody quite different, opposed to what I am now. In a certain way, the ‘me’ of before has been staying there: crouching. 

It took 3 months before I could start speaking about this. At first with my mother and my sister, as I wanted to reassure them at the same time, saying that our family that has passed are all over there and that they are fine, that we need not worry about them. It relieved me to tell my experience, as they believed me, I feared to the contrary. Today, three and a half years after, things have changed starting with my job. I was a metalworker with great experience, but I cannot exercise this trade anymore due to my health problems. But I also couldn't see myself anymore doing it, there was no passion anymore and so I reconverted gradually in becoming monitor/educator, a helping job closer to what I am now. I also lost quite a few friends, being scared of my changes. I didn't quite understand but I found other ones afterwards, who did not know me before. Well it’s like that, it’s life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  15/03/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness. Surgery-related.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening. Après l'opération je me suis brièvement réveillé pour me rendormir aussitôt et ce pendant 3 heures  After surgery I woke up shortly and fell asleep immediately for about 3 hours.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment when I heard this voice from behind me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In real time the experience lasted approximately 3 hours, but I had the impression that it took only 10 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was the same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was the same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not in the beginning but at the end, while returning

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandfather who left us in 2007, my father when I was 10, and my stepfather who married my mother when I was 6 years old, he left us in 2008.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   With the exception of the light place, no.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serene and confident

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had lost faith when I lost my relatives, but after my return I got it back.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     J'ai bien ressentit une présence très haut et puissant mais je ne l'ai pas vu.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     Le faites de voir mes proches me fait dire que la vie persiste après la vie terrestre

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I lost friends who had been scared by my changes and I found others that didn't know me before. Concerning family, nothing changed.  They are even delighted by my changes.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Especially the place what we call light is difficult to describe.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I had already before had certain psychic faculties, nothing’s changed since.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, there's the moment when I saw my relatives in the distance, which reassured me. Then when I was crouching, it was strange that I thought about the people that I had been helping, then about other people that I was in the process of helping; and then even stranger I also was thinking about people that I didn't know or at least not yet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three months went by, before I got enough courage to tell it and everything went well. They had been astonished, but they understood what I told them. In some way they are more trusting, as they now know that there really is something coming afterwards, and that our loved ones being already there, are fine. They are less sad knowing this, and can advance better in their life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had a vague knowledge as I was on a forum, dealing with all kinds of subjects concerning the paranormal. I had been in this part of the forum without lingering, it's only after I, myself, had a NDE that I really became interested, furthermore after having told it in my surroundings, it's in that part of the forum that I put down my experience for the first time in writing.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The fact that I could see my relatives makes me say that life persists after the earthly life. I definitely could feel a very High and powerful presence, but I didn't see it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dominic_possible_nde.html