{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Diane S NDE 3195","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane S NDE 3195  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diane S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1226 Diane S NDE 3195  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

  					When I woke up in the morgue, I was naked and paralyzed. The only available light came from the opaque glass window in a door. Two people stood in the doorway. A nurse holding the clothes I had had on and my brother-in-law. He asked, 'Do dead people cry?' The nurse looked at me and said, 'Oh, my God.' I passed out. I came to again and was being wheeled down a corridor with signs above me saying intensive care. I passed out again.
  					  
Then I became aware that I was semi-alert. Not awake but aware of something happening to me. I felt like I was a smoky being inside my body. This smoky being was curling up. First, I curled up inside my feet, then legs, then arms, then body. All very, very slowly. When all the smoky being was inside my head, I suddenly felt a big pop and I was outside my body. I could look down on my body from above. I wondered if I could go through the wall. I did. Outside of the room was a long corridor.

My mother, sister and brother-in-law were there. My sister said, 'I wonder if we should stay.' My brother-in-law said, 'I will do whatever you guys want.' My mother said, 'well, you know I don't like hospitals.' If felt annoyed with them. I decided to go up the corridor to see what was there. Around the corner was a seating area. I got nervous about being away from my body. I decided to retrace my path. Back in the room, I was amazed to discover the body was talking to two police officers. Describing an accident but not in any way the one that I had been in. I decided to go back into my body. I saw that there was a bright light outside the window. Outside the window was a parking lot. I had seen it when I left the room. Now I could not see any parking lot, just the bright light. I thought to myself, I am not ready to go. Immediately I was inside my head and the smoky being was unraveling slowly. I felt that someone else was in the body. I felt that someone had a name 'Cathy'. I thought Cathy you do not have to go. You can stay too. I felt that person was frightened. I did not talk to the police. Cathy stopped talking. I passed out again. I spent weeks in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1959

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Woke up in hospital morgue.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Yes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The light from the window was so intense it obscured all other colors and made them look washed out.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Acute.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     At the accident scene. I was thrown violently from the vehicle. I passed out and came to several times. One time I was aware of a man holding me in his arms. He ask me if I was cold. He said, 'I can get you a blanket.' I knew that if I opened my eyes he would not be there. I asked him who he was. He said, 'I am just a drover.' He said, 'You are going to be alright.' From that point on, I knew that I had nothing to worry about so I did not worry. He said this with a most calming voice. A voice I heard only in my head. Not with my ears.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw only this extremely intense light. I knew that I had the option to go into it or stay back. It didn't entice me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I had no affinity for my mortal body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not at that time. However later from time to time I saw visions of the future. Also sometimes I could hear what people were thinking.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   practicing Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No     Intensified.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   practicing Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     Intensified.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  For example without reading your questionnaire, I have anticipated every question. This has been my experience all my life since the accident.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I had other near death experiences. One time my car hit black ice and skidded out of control. I saw clearly my two little girls, years before they were born. I wasn't frightened at all. I knew I wasn't going to die. The car righted itself and I continued to drive. I glimpsed the two occupants of an oncoming car. They had a look of abject horror.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I underwent a complete personality change. First thing I did was a lot more traveling. I gained a tremendous amount of self-confidence.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Many years. When I was discharged from the hospital, I was in really bad shape. I had amnesia. I went back to work with no knowledge of what I did. I had no fondness for my family. I was a clean slate.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I wondered who was living my life myself or Cathy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     My parents were very timid. They never expected much from life. The life I have lived is not the life that I would have lived if not for the accident.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   All my experience have been unrelated and never duplicated. The other out of body experiences were a result of an accident on the operating table. I left my body and saw what happened and later told the doctor what he did. He never tried to do that particular thing again. I did not sue him. It was a mistake. I tried to have out of body experiences but could not of my own volition. Now I have cancer. I am fine and healthy but in pain sometimes so I can take morphine when needed. I know that I am not going to die just yet. I have something yet to do. I do not know what it is though.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I don't want to spook you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_s_nde.html