{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dick_b_fde.html","mytitle":"Dick B FDE 20953","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dick B FDE 20953  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dick B FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						683  Dick B FDE  20953  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I entered a turn on my motorcycle too fast. I have no memory of this part. It is always a bone chill of fear when you come close and something you can always recall in detail.  Instead, this time, I was viewing me riding my cycle, even noting the dust from my rear wheel, as I was riding off the shoulder of the road. I was parallel, trying to dissipate speed. I seemed to be viewing from a twenty foot altitude and seventy five feet away from the bike. In the next instant, all of me was on the bike trying to regain control. The bike slid from the shoulder into a ditch to a sudden stop from fifty miles per hour (police estimate). I sustained three broken badly ribs, which gave no end to pain and misery. I used to think it was just physics and the lay of the land that dictated outcome in an accident. It was that sudden stop with no sliding, just like flying a plane into the side of a mountain. Five years ago, I crashed an ultra-light airplane. I was approaching the runway at two hundred fifty feet above the ground when a sudden gust of wind got under my wing and forced me into a graveyard spiral spin. I was unable to quickly regain control and soon became disoriented from the spin itself. The wing of the plane was perpendicular to the earth and I was corkscrewing down. More disconcerting was the strobe effect of full exposure to the sun, followed by the full shade of my wing in rotation. It took no more than thirty seconds to impact from the moment of loss of control. My eyes could not possible about to this light change. It seemed longer, of course. I knew I was going to die and that was that. There was nothing else to do but wait and hope it will be quick. I mulled this over and over. Suddenly, crash-boom, followed by several more crashes and booms. I opened my eyes in a brown cloud. Alive, maybe? I crawled out cutting my left thumb slightly. That was my worst injury. The plane was totally destroyed and did not resemble a plane at all. The wing tip hit first. The plane cart wheeled to a stop. I have pictures I took immediately after the crash. I even have some of the emergency vehicles approaching.


Why was I out of body this time in a compressed time frame, and not in a classic scenario like five years ago?

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    08/01/05

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident.     Event preceded crash

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was fully conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Only the time of separation where I could not recall entering the turn. The instant of re-joining was seamless. I was looking at myself and merged into myself without hesitation or shock.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    It seemed like it was quiet while I was viewing myself.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the quiet during the experience.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Mild surprise. Relief to get back in my body in an emergency. It was as clear (the experience), and as real as anything before or since.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know I had an out of body experience.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I was out. Then I came back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They were patient and understanding. Humoring, even.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dick_b_fde.html