{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Diane W Probable NDE 8201","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane W Probable NDE 8201  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diane W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						4287 Diane W Probable NDE 8201  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a nurse for 35 years, working night shift as a house supervisor.  I loved my job.  I ran to code blues, helped with organ donation and helped patients die with dignity.   I retired in April 2014 so I could spend more time with my husband.  In 2016, I was noticing some shortness of breath when going upstairs or when cutting the grass.  I hesitated telling my nurse practioner about this, but I did.  She sent me for a treadmill test, which did not show much except high blood pressure.  I was also asked to see a cardiologist, which I did and the other tests were done.  Finally the catscan  with dye showed a blockage. I went to the catheter lab.  The doctor could not even get the line in my left main artery without my blood pressure dropping.  He did not finish the catheter procedure and quickly told my husband and daughter that it was bad and that I needed a double bypass.  I was transferred to the hospital immediately.  My daughter, who is was also  a nurse, understood all of this.  
  
  I had double bypass surgery on July 8, 2016. On  the morning of the surgery, I told myself that I had lived a good and honest life and I placed myself in God's hands.  I was nervous and scared as they wheeled me into a large room with multiple blue sterile supplies.  The nurses looked at me and said, 'Good morning, Diane.'  I couldn't believe they knew my name, but it did help me relax.  The anesthesiologist was kind and soft spoken.  
  
  Sometime during the surgery, I had a wonderful experience.  I am supposing it was during the time they put me on the heart/lung machine. It could have been seconds or minutes that I was clinically dead, but I do not know for sure.  I just know that I drifted slowly out of my body to a very cloudy, misty place.  I rose slowly, as if I was on an escalator.  I did not see myself, nor did I see or worry about those on earth.  As I slowly rose, I saw my grandparents.  The men were on the left and the women were on the right.  I recognized them right away, although I only saw one grandfather in my earthly life.  My grandfather H was wearing a black suit and white shirt that was loose around the neck with no tie. He was holding his black hat, that I have seen pictures of. My grandmother H was wearing a very lacy, layered dress. Her hair was pulled back and pinned in two places away from her face.  My other grandparents had on less dressy clothing because  they were farmers.  
  
  They all smiled at me lovingly, kindly and I felt peace and safety.  They did not say one word or beckon me to come closer.  I say they were on the left and right because they were on the beginning of a path that went on back, and was lined with other people.  I was not privileged to see their faces, but I felt they were my relations and people that I had known.  As the path turned and went back further, I could see a beautiful sunset or sunrise with colors of white, yellow, and gold. I could see the outline of people standing on their tiptoes who were trying to see me. They were leaning to the left and the right,  trying to get a peek at who had come to visit them.  I was never afraid, just amazed.  My grandparents were not old or crippled. They were in their thirties.  They were happy and at peace.  I looked into their eyes and knew they were happy.  

  I slowly faded away and must have gone back into my body.  The next thing I  knew, I was coming around the next day after surgery.  I did not tell my daughter and husband about this experience until the second day, but I knew something very special had happened to me. It was so real and was not a dream. I could describe it in detail for weeks afterwards.  

  After I got home and after months of recovery, I kept feeling that there was something that I was supposed to do and it kept bothering me.   It had to do with my grandmother H.  It was a message that I was to give to family.  Let me try to explain this.  Grandmother H had three children.  She played favorites with two of the daughters. The one daughter never forgave her for this.  As she grew up and married, she passed on this dislike of her mother to her grandchildren. I know this for a fact, because my cousin would openly show and talk about her dislike of grandmother  H.    

  Two months after my surgery my cousins, the estranged grandchildren, wanted to have a reunion.  This was unusual for all of them to come to Indiana at one time.  This did happen and I knew in my heart that I was to convey a message to my cousin who was so vocal about my grandmother.  At the reunion, I took her aside and told her that I needed to tell her something, so we spoke in private.  I told her about my surgery and my experience.  I told her that she needed to forgive and give up her anger towards our grandmother H because she is in heaven and she has reconciled with her daughter.  They are happy.  Grandmother H must have done some good things on earth to deserve going to heaven, which is where I believe I was.  My cousin began to cry.  She said, 'You are not going to believe this but my husband and I talked about all of this on our way from Virginia. We talked about the dislike and feelings that I  had toward grandmother H.'  I could feel her relief and letting go of anger that she had.  She said, 'Thank you for telling me this'.  

I was also now at peace and felt I had been a vessel for a message to be delivered.  I now understood my feelings.    

  I had been bothered by the fact of how I had been given the message, but now after reading  'Evidence of the Afterlife by Jeffrey Long and Paul Perry, I now know it was mental telepathy.  This answers my question that I had been pondering.  My grandparents did not have to say a word, I just knew what they were thinking.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 8,2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function).   95% blockage of my left main and 50% blockage of my circumflex artery. I needed immediate double bypass

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was just more intense in complete silence

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       after I had floated up and was a step or two below my grandparents and the pathway with other people lining it.  I stopped and just looked in amazement

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I knew nothing about time, it was not a worry.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     grandmother and grandfather H  and grandmother and grandfather Norris

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   more beautiful than a sunset or sunrise with all those colors

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace, intense love tranquility, amazement, and safe

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I felt like I could feel the joy and feelings of my grandparents. They did not have to speak; I knew what they thought and how they felt

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic    but not attending church every Sunday

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I continue my Catholic faith but believe that there are so many ways to honor God, like in nursing and quietly praying or giving thanks to God. Also, doing good things for people and offering it up to God

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     more belief in an afterlife and heaven

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     there is a heaven awaiting us and we will see our relatives again

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes    later on after surgery

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was to clear up false information or feelings of dislike or hatred harbored by my relation on earth

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes     I knew I was given a message to convey to someone on earth.  I did not realize this until almost a month or two after the experience

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     our grandmother H must have been a good person despite the struggles in personality she had with her daughter. She was in heaven and felt remorse for what had occurred on earth.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I feel more relaxed. No need to get angry. Materialistic things do not matter as much

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just to see grandparents again in this wonderful place

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband and daughter a couple days after it happened. Now I share it with special people that I believe know God and that I can confide in. They all believe me

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   books. No, I never expected to have this experience

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I was still sort of in shock about it. I was hesitant to tell anyone because I thought they would think that I was crazy

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.      I cannot forget it and I still can explain it.  I know I was used as a vessel for a message and I completed that task

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_w_probable_nde.html