{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dianne_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Dianne H Probable NDE 4865","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dianne H Probable NDE 4865  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dianne H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2471 Dianne H Probable NDE 4865  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was feverish and uncomfortable with all the lines going in and out of my body.

All of a sudden, I was in a very beautiful place with soft green grass and a blue, blue sky. There was a perfect refreshing temperature (it was summer in Phoenix and hot in the hospital). There was a light, but no sun to be seen. I was standing barefooted on a slight downward slope with a clear brook not too deep and about two or three feet wide at the bottom of the incline. The other side of the brook/river was a slight incline, but a little higher than the one I was on - the slope was not uncomfortable on which to stand.

I was walking slowly towards the water (I am not sure why I was drawn to the water) and was surprised to be able to breathe well and felt no pain. I was barefooted, but do not remember what I was wearing. I looked up towards the opposite bank and saw my Aunt Margaret coming rapidly towards me. She has been a Christian and Junior High English teacher (retired) in life. She was young and had a reddish cast to her hair, she was wearing what I would later learn from my mother was her favorite dress early in her life. It was brown with floral print, light yellow flowers, with a light brown background, and a lace collar, and a narrow belt. She also wore her hose and sensible shoes.

She pointed at me with an outstretched right arm and said, 'Dianne, turn around, you cannot cross the river today.' As she said that I looked behind her at a large field of green as far as I could see and saw people coming behind her. I think that I recognized my mother-in-law, (she was wearing a red sweater) my two grandmothers and maternal grandfather and some others that I thought I should know, coming towards me at the horizon. They were all young and laughing. I just caught a glimpse of these people.

I felt at peace and content and felt no pain or thought the situation strange. I turned around and was again in the hospital bed. Almost at the same instant a nurse came in and took my vitals, humphed, then a second one did the same (humphed, as well). Neither said anything then, but later said that I was doing very well and I went home after more tests a day or two later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Unknown problem during  cancer treatment.  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was hospitalized and then admitted after I was in the hospital room. No one seemed to know what was wrong except that I needed fluids. My oncologist had directed several tests to be run. I was feverish and my body functions were not as they should have been.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt that I was highly conscious and alert the whole experience. I also felt no anxious thoughts and was at peace.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Afterwards, I thought that the time was different. But it is hard to describe what was different I don't seem to think it was faster or slower. I am not sure about this.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience, everything seemed normal. Because of the cancer treatments I was not normal in my regular life.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The experience seemed normal, but I did hear everything clearly including my mother-in-law's laughter. She was a Christian and had been promoted to glory (the Salvation Army's term for death) several years before. At that time because of the medications I did not hear very well.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Aunt Margaret, and my mother-in-law, two grandmothers my maternal grandfather and others I felt I should recognize but did not specifically. They were all happy and young. They 'walked happy' almost skipping, except my Aunt who 'was on a mission' to talk to me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The light I saw was all around me and not coming from any source.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the green soft grass, the blue blue  sky and the clear river.  The field behind the river was all green I saw no flowers or trees.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, peaceful, calm, interested.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only that I would get well and a sense that I would see those people again.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was told to go back and since my Aunt told me to, I did. But if I ever get to that river again I am going to cross it. Unless I have a very good reason not to do that.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Members of my church are known as Salvationists

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I find more pleasure in Bible reading and prayer. And more insight as I read and pray. I pray more specifically and feel that is the way I should be, better than I was.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   retired Salvation Army Officer (Colonel) after 46 years of service

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I find more pleasure in Bible reading and prayer. And more insight as I read and pray. I pray more specifically and feel that is the way I should be, better than I was.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I would recover from the cancer and that I should not be anxious and should take things as they come.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not as critical and am more patient with others. I am more in love with my husband of forty-six years, I do things that I enjoy and for others because it is a real joy and not out of duty only.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was difficult to describe without people being uncomfortable hearing about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was glad for the assurance that there is life after death and now when someone I know dies, I feel first how fortunate and happy they must be. Then I talk to the living.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it right away. Many looked skeptical and said that I was very sick and probably was 'dreaming or something'. When I share with Christians, they asked questions. My cousins were annoyed that their mother might be bossy in heaven as she was on earth.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In my work. This was not the same as anything shared with me in my ministry.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As I think about it more I was at peace, and look forward with my heart and not just my mind to heaven.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even though I understood with my mind and because of study the fact about Heaven and life after death and I now feel it is sure and I have more interest in Bible study in general, have more calm and peace in my soul or heart and mind if you will.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am glad to have had the experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for allowing me to write about this experience. I appreciate the opportunity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dianne_h_probable_nde.html