{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dick_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Dick M NDE 4534","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dick M NDE 4534  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dick M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2283 Dick M NDE 4534  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been drinking alcoholically for 30 years. I drank a quart of vodka but could not get drunk. I collapsed and blacked out, my wife called 911 and I was taken to the hospital. Next, I was on a table being attended by doctors when suddenly, I found myself 'floating' on the corner of the ceiling and I heard a doctor say, 'We're losing him.' 

I turned or was turned away and found myself in a 'tunnel' of light, bright but at the same time 'soft' around the edges. I was proceeding down (or up) through this tunnel and I saw a figure, not describable, and this figure said, 'Go back; it's not your time.' I did not want to go back and the voice repeated 'Go back. It is not your time.' Then the voice said 'You have had enough.' I knew that the voice meant alcohol. 

I reluctantly retreated and the next thing I remember is waking up in a hospital bed completely at peace and sober. I was all alone and I heard my own voice reciting the first step of AA. I have not had a drink or a desire for a drink to this day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12-30-89

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    ALCOHOLISM  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I passed out due to an overdose of alcohol; I fell breaking ribs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I approached the tunnel and during my 'journey' in the tunnel. Then when I was retreating back from the tunnel.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I approached the tunnel and during my 'journey' in the tunnel; then again when I was retreating back from the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt 'awareness' and understood that I had had enough. I did not want to go back but knew I must.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I not only heard but I understood some things far better than ever before (or after).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I started down the tunnel but was told to stop and go back.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a being but cannot describe that being. It appeared to be a male and very strong.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very bright but had sort of soft cloudy edges.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, peace, and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It is hard for me to explain. I really did not have a big review but rather just an understanding.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do think there is a God, but he or she or it is not the god of my childhood. I guess I just know this vast universe exists and I am part of it; part of existence.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do think there is a God, but he or she or it is not the god of my childhood. I guess I just know this vast universe exists and I am part of it; part of existence.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I seemed to just 'know' where I was and what was happening to me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I now have friends. I never had one true friend, today I have many and we help each other.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I knew I was not going to die. I knew I would never drink again.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt I was going to have a better life and happiness. This has been with me for 20 years now.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I got out of the hospital, about ten days later, I went to an AA meeting and went to a psychiatrist.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was profound and changed me in many ways. I still make foolish mistakes but I feel good about myself and am trying to be of service to others. Incidentally, the psychiatrist I went to pooh-pooed the whole thing and told me I had an alcoholic induced hallucination. I do not believe that. It was very real and changed my whole life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I do not claim to know any higher purpose; I just know I am a person with a great deal of love, patience, and tolerance for others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I think about it a lot and it guides my actions and my thoughts.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just to repeat; it was real, not a hallucination. I believe it happened to me and I no longer try to analyze it or dissect it. It happened. I am alive. I am not the same person.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I do not need reinforcement of my belief that it was real. I am answering this survey at the urging of my son who is a therapist.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dick_m_nde.html