{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_v_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Diane V Possible NDE 3816","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane V Possible NDE 3816  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diane V Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1791 Diane V Possible NDE 3816  					  				  			    			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was out of body above the doctors, watching them trying to put a needle into my collapsed veins. Then, I was bouncing around the ceiling of the hospital. Someone named Elizabeth was supposed to collect children, but I lost focus. I bounced around the hospital hallway ceiling with other entities that did not interact. They were probably asleep or unconscious (or, dead). There was a spark in a corner of a ceiling and small light beings kept saying, 'Go to the light.' I finally lost energy, gave up, and was sucked in. I was in a dark tunnel like place with an ocean, dark and fighting drowning. I finally gave up and didn't drown but came to a very bright island. I walked on the island, went between some boulders, and had a sense of meeting someone.

First, there was a Disney bluebird. (Remember, I was five years old.) Then, there was a blue-eyed blond Midwestern Jesus. There was a life review of the smallest details and I had lots of guilt. My Sunday school had taught that Jews didn't go to heaven. Even at five, I felt this was wrong and expressed concern. I was told, 'We are all one.' The Jesus figure changed into different races, genders. It was dizzying. I picked out a Native American who lamented that he had died too soon. A Viking who put himself in chains in horse stalls. A Mongolian looking guy with a headdress with horns on it. And, a guy who had died in heather and by his own hand. A couple of women, one of whom was older and spent time on a rocking chair on a farmhouse porch, yelled at me that he was messing up the place. I figured out later that these were past lives. I was told I had to fix the man who died in heather. I was told that I was there too soon and had to go back. Earth was vibrating much slower than this place. I had to go back. I had no choice. I was told I wouldn't remember. I was always stubborn and did, despite the disbelief of others. I told the nurse that 'I was back'. She said that I never left and I realized then that I had a problem.

Later in life, I participated in a past life regression with shiatsu massage. I was programmed to die violently. I met the Viking. He was somehow protecting me. I think he probably fell off a boat and drowned. I then met the man who died in heather. He was Irish and had killed his lover/wife. There was a knife and a blue dress. He was asked to make another choice. In my logical mind, I would have had him choose to live. His choice was to love and that he was going to work on it. A part of me was altered and had to be processed for about four days. I am so not who I started out to be by the NDE and the meeting with the man who died in heather. That is why I couldn't answer that you were met by deceased persons. Not deceased in the way you would expect. Time may not be what we expect.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1952

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  An allergic reaction to a virus. Was in a coma.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) They were trying to put transfusion into collapsed veins  I was dying of dehydration and they were trying to get a needle in to do a transfusion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   From the OBE on.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the OBE on.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When they showed my parents, where they were was vibrating/moving slower. This was ONLY sensed when there was a connection with life here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I met people I had been in past lives. They were pretty solid, but doing their own thing and sometimes crazy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     But it manifested as falling off a ship into a dark, cold ocean.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Already told.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But manifested as a very bright island.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     dimensions of past lives

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Before the OBE, things were irrational like a bad dream. Then, there was a drag on energy until crossed over.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Guilt over every little thing that made another person feel bad. No details remembered. Glad it was over. I figure it was a transition into a state vibrating faster than here.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     My boundary was that they kept trying to keep me from remembering and I insisted on doing so. It was like curtains. It didn't work.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer bought into the 'Jews don't go to heaven' thing and became skeptical of any organized religion.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer bought into the 'Jews don't go to heaven' thing and became skeptical of any organized religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Go to the light, you are met by who you expect, all are one and you will have to fix the man who died in heather. So, don't kill someone else, or yourself. All are one.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was five. I was always different. I became more so after the past life regression. It was what I was sent back to do. I think that it may have a ripple effect. Time is not as linear as we expect. If you actually reach back and change the focus of the past, it changes the future. I was due to die. I wasn't supposed to be here. Whatever I do now, changes the fabric.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Nobody wanted to listen. Still don't.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    Reactions were always non-reactions, so I rarely bother.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was five and there was no common knowledge of the phenomenon.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Always more real than here. That is 'home' and I didn't want to come back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Only a past life regression that fixed the energy of the man who died in heather.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_v_possible_nde.html