{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_b_adc.html","mytitle":"Diane B ADC 3666","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane B ADC 3666  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diane B ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification ADC  						1667 Diane B ADC 3666  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The experience I wish to share is one in which my father passed over and I witnessed him leaving. I saw a little whirlwind leave the top of his head as it fell into my arm. Then I saw my mother extend her hand and I heard her laugh.

I do remember thinking, 'Science is trying to measure what I saw.'

Do you wonder what you look like when you leave your body? This is my answer to what you look like at death. I wonder if that little gray whirlwind leaves if you are coming back. Does it leave and then return?

During a NDE, does the golden shimmering light lift from the body and return?

If this is information not useful to you, I apologize for the inconvenience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 26, 1995'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   At all times.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Third person answer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Third person answer.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Third person answer

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Third person answer.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Third person answer.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Raised catholic, I have outgrown the religious boundaries set by formal communities'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I thought my belief system was strong prior, but found out that it had been strengthened with the experience.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I AM. I do not know what to answer to this question'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I thought my belief system was strong prior, but found out that it had been strengthened with the experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Third person answer.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Each person I come into contact with blesses me with their light, and I SEE it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Thinking, 'Who would believe me?' makes it quite difficult to communicate the experience as well as the awe felt intrinsically at witnessing the event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Third person answer.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most significant was the fact that my father allowed me to witness one of the most personal experiences of his lifetime.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two years after, I only shared the experience with a very dear friend who, of course, understood and believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Reading materials had explained what happens during a NDE, and the information may have revealed what happens after death, but never had I read that the spirit leaves in a whirlwind, nor had I ever seen pictures or paintings of the phenomenon.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_b_adc.html