{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Diane K NDE 699","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane K NDE 699  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Diane K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						229  Diane K NDE  699  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember exactly nothing of what happened immediately before the NDE started or immediately after it ended.


 I do not remember leaving my body. My recall begins as I find myself hovering up near the ceiling, slightly to the right of the ceiling light. I am above my body, which my mother has placed on the baby's changing table. The doctor comes in with his overcoat on and looks down at me, as my mother stands next to him talking. I watch them with little interest. I know that is me on the changing table. I feel no attachment to 'me' or to my mom, other than I kind of feel sorry for her. Then I turn around and leave through the ceiling.


Outside, it's dark and the sky is clear. I look up at the sky, looking for something. Then I see what I expect, a point of light in the sky, a star. I lock onto it, and immediately start flying, not through the sky, but through this kind of dark void. I fly as fast as I can, which is incredibly fast. I don't see if I have a body, but it feels like I do. There's this rushing wind sound, but I don't 'feel' the airflow. It's not cold; it's not warm. It is the perfect temperature. I know there are others around me, but I don't 'see' them. I know where I'm going.


Then, a transition. I am slowing down. I see the pinpoint light, the star, getting closer. I'm slowing down; something is making me slow down. I am almost completely stopped, but I press forward - but there is like a force field or something I'm pressing against. It doesn't hurt - it just won't let me go forward. So, I'm a little confused. I look back to where I came from, which is not something I actually see - but I know where it is. I am hovering in a void, suspended in midair. I turn towards the 'star' or the light again, and the message is clear. I wonder if I'm supposed to turn around, and I get an answer in my head. 'Yes.'


So - I like mentally shrug my shoulders, I'm still confused about why I can't come back (not to Mercer Island, but to the 'star'). But, okay, I'll turn around and go back to the other place. I do - I know exactly how to get back, even though I don't really want to. So - I return.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    I don't know

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening I had a very high fever, but do not know whether or not it was possibly life threatening. I do know now that I have unexplained lesions on my brain, which could reflect some serious illness as a child. My mother does not remember, probably because she hadI was clearly very ill, but how ill I have no way of knowing. My mother does not remember any life threatening illness, other than a head injury I suffered around the same time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I never saw myself. But, as I said, I did have the sense that I had a body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Completely clear, clearer than any memory I have from that age in my life.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Rushing sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Well, more like a wind tunnel than the tunnel I have read about since.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I did not see any, but I felt at the boundary that something was being communicated to me by a really big grown-up.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a star.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     There is something there that I cannot put my finger on, but it may not be related to the NDE.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Strong force-field type boundary which I could not see, but I absolutely could not get past. Didn't cross it and couldn't have crossed it. Wasn't allowed.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I had no choice.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Again, I was only four and a half years old.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I did not tell my mother or anyone else until I went to college in 1970. At that time, I told my roommate and other friends.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have always had paranormal gifts, and since this happened when I was so young, who's to say whether I had them before or after?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Have openly shared it with selected friends since 1970 when I went to college. Have also shared it with people I have known when they were dying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Ask about feelings about death, both of self and of loved ones.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_k_nde.html