{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diane_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Diane H NDE 4156","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diane H NDE 4156  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diane H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2035 Diane H NDE 4156  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a near fatal motor vehicle accident and was cut from my car and air lifted to a local hospital. During the helicopter ride, I had a conversation with my deceased mother-in-law and grandmother. I remember being so happy to see them and smiling and feeling euphoric. I wanted to hug and kiss them but my mother-in-law simply said, 'Turn around, it isn't your time yet.' I felt perplexed and feel as though I made a strange face. She followed with, 'Amy can't lose you, so close to losing me. Go back and be with her.' She had such a kind loving look on her face. My grandmother was over her shoulder, smiling and shaking her head yes. Amy is my long-time partner. I remember thinking she is right and they disappeared. I then remember such excruciating pain that I passed out until I got to the hospital emergency room. They woke me and I told them to call Amy and finally remembered her number. The rest is about recovery but my visit with them was so vivid.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 22, 2008'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had a near-fatal motor vehicle accident with multiple brain bleeds, broken neck (C1) stable fracture, multiple broken bones, and severe hematoma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think when she told me to turn around - I felt very alert and clearly understood her message.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was bright and crisp. I heard the helicopter but it was very distant while they were there and much louder after they left. They both seemed very transparent and my mother-in-law, Betsy, seemed to be sitting down but I didn't see a chair. My sense of touch also seemed super sharp - I felt their smiles - it warmed me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the helicopter but it was very distant while they were there and much louder after they left. I heard or felt everything they communicated.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As described above.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Well not so much a light as I felt the space was exceptionally light and bright. It was an odd light, bluish with a pulsing feel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt elated, joyful. I was so happy to see them - it made me feel warm to be near them. I was feeling only good things - no pain or fear. It erased all anxiety and left me feeling at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Everyone in my life is more precious.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the fact that I was so close to crossing over - it took some powerful women in my life to keep me here. I know many people who have died but these are two of the most powerful and clearly the degree needed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this story with Amy, family, and friends in the emergency room - so within hours. They were so scared and worried about me that I think something that brought me peace made them very happy. I did later learn that it scared them to think I was so close to death because Amy and many of the others believe in NDE. Everyone close to me was changed by my accident and NDE so it is hard to tell what changed them most.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only what I have learned by reading.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel like it is the single most important reason why I am here. It feels as real as my fingers feel on the keyboard. There is no doubt in my mind that it happened or that I believe it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's the same - nothing has changed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diane_h_nde.html