{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diana_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Diana Possible NDE 7722","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diana Possible NDE 7722  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diana Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Anesthesia  			3972 Diana Possible NDE 7722  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I underwent surgery for papillary cancer.  The moment I awoke from the anaesthesia, it was difficult. I just wanted to cry and I couldn't understand why I couldn't move.  It was the first time I had had surgery. 

Two years later, I underwent another operation.  This time it was the one in which I had the experience. They gave me general anaesthetic.  I began to feel happy.  I found myself in a garden with beautiful golden yellow flowers, maybe a relative of the sunflower.  I went along touching the flowers with my hands.  I started to feel an indescribable emotion akin to extreme happiness.  As I walked along, I saw in the background  a very bright light.  It was as if looking directly at a spotlight.  It was too strong, but it made me so happy to look at it.  I ran and ran to be with this light because I wanted to stay there forever.  Immediately, they threw me out of this place. 

I know they threw me out because when I woke up the doctor was shaking me, and calling me, “Diana, Diana  wake up wake up!” I felt very badly that I wasn't able to stay in that place.

This was my experience.  I have read a lot about these things; in spite of my young age, because I have a sensitivity towards energies, and an interest in these subjects, as I have inherited them from my father.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Other: Los medicos no quisieron responder, diciendo q no era nada.  I asked the doctors and they said it wasn't anything.  But when I awoke, all I could feel was the doctor shaking me, and anxiously calling me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just when they threw me out of the marvellous place, in which I was.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt I had to run very fast and I think this was because they were trying to wake me up so suddenly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My senses were keener with this feeling of peace and happiness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything; only what I saw and felt.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very attractive light, and I just wanted to run up to it, as I didn't want them to take me away from it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt that as I reached for this light I was going to enter this spiritual realm full of peace and happiness.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Deep happiness and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Siempre he sido muy religiosa, desde pequeña soñaba todos los dias con la virgen, me acompañaba, me hablaba, me protegia y siempre la he sentido muy cerca a mi, siempre esta conmigo.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt that it was Jesus.  He didn't just materialise or we would be able to see him through our bodies.  It got more intense when you drew near.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The light was the connection, which seeks to be with God.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew that the light was Jesus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was that Jesus wants to give us this love, and always wants us to be happy and find peace.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I truly felt the happiness and peace that many say they have experienced, and that I myself experienced.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No, because it was so clear and precise; I told the story some months afterwards.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After maybe three months, I told my family. My father believed in it, as he had read about it, he said I had had an ESP experience. The rest of my family had said, 'N-o-o-o-o, we need you here, as you were able to think of staying there'.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had knowledge of these experiences because I had always been interested in the subject. I have read of it and seen programs on it, but really it had never happened to me before this time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was reality.  I felt it was I; it was very real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am able to remember the experience very clearly.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I always try to bring it to mind because it was a marvelous experience.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diana_possible_nde.html