{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1diana_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Diana M Possible NDE 6797","mylang":"de"}
          	        Diana M Possible NDE 6797  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Diana M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3387 Diana M Possible NDE 6797  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Thanks you for this opportunity.  I cannot prove anything, but this is the truth.  

My mother was a religious zealot.  I felt responsible for her illness after my twin sister's birth and me.  She had tumors in her uterus, hemorrhaged, had experimental radiation, and was never well.  After a rape at knife point and believing as I was taught that I lost my soul after losing my virginity I wanted to die. After my boyfriend was drafted, I had tried to get help, was misdiagnosed schizophrenic, sent to live in the basement of a nursing home, and was a zombie on heavy doses of medicine, which I was allergic to.  I escaped but got drunk with friends and took the pills I had saved.  I was taken to a clinic and passed out. 

Years later, I retrieved my experience under hypnosis.

I was taken to an ethereal conference room filled with Angels, Light Beings, and Masters.  The oval conference table was empty.  Then a white piece of paper floated down.  It was empty until letters began to appear one by one on the paper with spaces in between spelling T-R-U-T-H.   

I was escorted back to my body.  The angels said they would protect me and asked that I tell the truth.  I had no idea what truth to tell or what or who they would protect me from.  I went on a spiritual journey to find new beliefs after leaving Catholicism.  I was obsessed with writing. 

Shortly after, I dated an older man and became pregnant. I had a miscarriage and he murdered another girl on the playground where we had often made love.  I had survival guilt again.  I married an ex-convict, had a child and when I left him he tried to kill me for many years. He tried poison, arson, fire, and shooting.

Afterwards I was obsessed with writing.  I was protected through all of this. 

I was interested in healing after having energy work. I met someone, took her class, and joined her healing group.  We were born at the same hospital on the same day, of the same year an hour apart and met forty years later.  We are both authors and healers.    

I am a survivor of breast cancer after three years.  A butterfly landed on my tumor before surgery and stayed there for an unearthly amount of time and I knew I still could not get out.   

My story is different in that I am not enlightened.  I still get down.  I am no guru and I did not want to be here. I am afraid now because my wonderful husband is a cancer survivor and I don't want to be without him.   

I have been obsessed with telling my story to give hope.  

I have prayed my story reaches those it will heal.  I was not punished for suicide.   

Thank you.     

Love, 

Diana M

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt  'Was unconscious for days, I believe I died but cannot prove.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'Was unconscious for days, I believe I died but cannot prove.'  I overdosed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was One with God.  No pain, no fear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to feel color.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard angel's thoughts.  I did not hear with ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in an ethereal conference room with a table.  No walls but it felt enclosed.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy. Love. I felt whole and full of God.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew.  No doubt, no haze.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Angels felt like ordering me to get back down there.  They said they would protect me and asked I tell the truth.  They did protect me. I did tell the truth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Had extreme religious abuse with a mother who was a religious zealot.  After rape was taught better to die than lose virginity.  Became suicidal.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't like intolerant religions or too much ritual.  I like Native American beliefs that include healing.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I believe it doesn't matter but prefer churches that believe in healing, i.e., Unity, Lively Stones Fellowship, etc.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I let go of the Catholic beliefs that "I am my Body and my body is dirty" and the guilt about being sexual and the constant self-hate of being a Sinner and fear of sin.  No punishment for wanting to be with God.     I believed in healing, oneness, Unity and equality, not "I am saved, You're not".

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I got rid of the guilt from my religious past and wanted to share the freedom of that.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Angels, and masters at the table.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Exists.  We all KNOW this in our souls.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Had to Be.  I was alive in Spirit, not my body.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had to go back, even though I had killed myself.  I have felt trapped but feel if I just live until I die, I'll have done it.  No need to be famous.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     For me to tell the truth.  Angels are real.  Love is real.  Healing energy is real and available to everyone.  It is what made me feel close to God again, doing healing work.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt unending, eternal.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I had some kind of promise to return but did not want to.  Life on Earth hurts and is blind.  "Man tries to measure the ocean of knowledge with the cup of his mind."

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love beyond human.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I was given a mentor, a wonderful husband, and a child.  I was guided to healing and became a healer.  Angels protected me from death many times and I survived cancer without doing radiation, drugs or chemo, just surgery against the doctor's will.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I've been guided to teachers, healers, mentors, a husband, and having a child.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Healing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, angels are real.  Healing is real and anyone, especially mothers, can learn to do it and change everything.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was a teenager and it was not talked about then.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      Only after the hypnosis did I understand why I had lived the way I had.  I felt more gratitude.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When a butterfly landed on my tumor out in the garden before breast lumpectomy. I felt like I was lifted into another world.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was my life and I want to share it before I die.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diana_m_possible_nde.html