{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dharam_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Dharam S NDE 6645","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dharam S NDE 6645  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dharam S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3296 Dharam S NDE 6645  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a disk jockey (DJ) at the time and worked spinning at Hollywood after-hours parties until 6am in the morning and stayed up much later to party with roommates, friends, and other club-goers. I brought a bunch of people back to my apartment from the club and I felt like I was a rock star. I felt successful in my DJ career and it was time to celebrate. I snorted a line of ketamine and also had been ingesting a concentrated liquid version of GHB intermittently. These are two combinations you should never mix, but for some reason I thought I could handle it or it was a small quantity of ketamine so I felt safe. 30-60 minutes later, I lost consciousness. My roommate said I experienced convulsions and that my body and face turned blue.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 12, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Total inner peace, acceptance, love, and beauty.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the white light, I felt a very warm glow.  I was with relatives and deceased persons that I could not see but I felt their presence. I heard them say, 'Don't worry about anything, ever.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     White light incomparable to any vision on Earth.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More clarity than the hearing experienced every day and deep understanding of the meaning behind the words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall going through a tunnel. I felt a floating up experience that was from some darkness to pure white light. Then there was a dropping down experience back into my body, but I cannot say for sure that it was a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt that my aunt Ginny was there. I really felt that she was there and it was possible that my Uncle Ted and Grandma Helen were there. I cannot say with certainty that they were there, but I really feel like aunt Ginny was there, but I could not see anything other than the white light.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brightest white light I have ever seen. So bright I could not see anything else.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was pure white light. Brighter than anything, I had ever seen and it felt really good. It felt like a drop back into my body when I was awakened.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, peace, calm, some fear of unknown at first, but mostly peace and calm as I entered the white light. Once I entered the light there was no question as to whether I was safe and secure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that I had been given a second chance. I also felt guilty, like I had stolen special knowledge from the universe. My experience of being in the white light made me want to preach the word of the gospel and become a Christian minister.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was Christian-Protestant at the time, but was not currently attending any church services. I frequently questioned the Bible and assertions that it was literal fact. I did not believe it was a literal text and saw it as metaphorical. I was still developing my views regarding spirituality.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more into Eastern meditation. I practice Kundalini Yoga religiously. I believe in both Jesus Christ and other wisdom traditions as my guides along with the angels in the NDE.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I am more spiritual than religious, I consider myself to be a Gnostic Christian & very liberal Born-Again Christian with Jesus Christ as my savior. I also say prayers from the Sikh faith including Japji Sahib - the Sikh Prayer. I have respect and reverence for all religious traditions.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in an afterlife, but I didn't necessarily believe in being given specific messages such as "don't worry about anything" nor did I certainly practice that in my daily life. I think I developed a practice of worrying on a consistent basis in my daily life so that when I heard this it was very refreshing.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I immediately wanted to share my knowledge with others and help others. I felt like God had given me a second chance and it was my mission to spread the word about how wonderful God is and how wonderful life is.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt surrounded by many beings. I felt my Aunt Ginny was there and possibly my paternal grandparents. I wasn't sure though because all I could see was this incredible bright white light. I heard them say, 'It is not your time yet, it will be ok' and 'don't worry about anything... ever.' They seemed to say this last part with such emphasis and strength that it really stuck with me. It was as if this was a message that they had to give me and that they wanted me to take it back home with me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Being surrounded by the beings in the experience, I felt at least 7, though there could have been more, that we are connected through spirit. Yes.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Purpose was to come back to Earth to do good works and spread messages of love and calm.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There was definitely an awareness that there is life after physical Earthly death. The people I encountered seemed to be very loving and operating at a higher level of consciousness and understanding of this Earth.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The beings said "Not to worry about anything" in a very definitive and assured way that I have never heard anybody speak of.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt totally loved and protected in the experience. It was as if the beings were holding this space for me. They were huddled around like I was a newborn baby or something. I felt their compassion and love. It was intense.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I make connections with more spiritually and psychically attuned individuals.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I think about the experience a lot and even more so now that we are entering the same Chinese year of the Snake when the experience happened. I am free from drugs and alcohol now so I think about it more often and this is the one experience that stands out from that time. Accuracy is really hard to gauge, but I would say I remember the events from this event more accurately than other life events because there are a few key points in the story that are very consistent.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've told many people. Recently, people have been really inspired and encourage me to keep sharing it with others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I'm really not sure. I don't recall. It was 12 years ago and I was a young DJ mostly concerned with spinning records, partying, and girls. I may have heard about it, but I cannot tell you for sure. I did extensive research on the Internet for days and years after though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was really bewildered and constantly questioning if it was real many weeks to months to years later. However, immediately after the experience I considered it to be very real and today I view it as real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think it was definitely real in the sense that I was given a second chance to live life and given a special message that would serve me and my entire family. The 'Don't worry about anything ever' line was paramount to the experience. It was simple, but a reflection of how humans beings in general stress over the smallest matters.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There was definitely an awareness that there is life after physical Earthly death. The people I encountered seemed to be very loving and operating at a higher level of consciousness and understanding of this Earth. I was surrounded by the Beings in the experience. There were at least seven of them, though there could have been more.  I felt that we are connected through spirit. I felt totally loved and protected in the experience. It was as if the beings were holding this space for me. They were huddled around like I was a newborn baby or something. I felt their compassion and love. It was intense.  I consider it a necessary part of my spiritual growth and a blessing.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Shorter.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dharam_s_nde.html