{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1desmond_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Desmond F NDE 4295","mylang":"de"}
          	        Desmond F NDE 4295  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Desmond F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2126 Desmond F NDE 4295  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Finally, I hear a siren, and soon, two men and a woman arrive (she's the doctor, I think). Immediately they do an electrocardiogram. They talk to me, asking me where I felt the pain.  They give me one or two pills to swallow, and then an oxygen perfusion and morphine. The pain quickly slows down a little after they take care of me and give me the morphine perfusion, at least, enough to get some alertness.

They tell me they are going to take me to the city of Grenoble, since they can make a coronary angiography at the Emergency Service, so they are going to take me over there or to the city of Annecy, but in any case, it is urgent to go now. They call an ambulance that arrives quite fast, and they prepare the shell mattress. They are at least five now.  I feel the tension rising, I hear, 'You must go now! Fast, fast!!' They take me by the arms, legs and waist to transfer me to the shell mattress. I have time to say, 'Sorry, I cannot help you,' and, 'I do not know if this is normal, but I cannot feel my hands, my arms or my legs.' I have the sensation of having my mouth full, I cannot articulate, and then everything changes.

I am now fine. I am feeling intensely and immensely well, lying there.  I think so, for I am both spectator and actor of the stage. I am both inside and outside, so am I lying down? I don't know. I was bathing in a soft light around (or in front?) of me.  There were some familiar and extremely caring presences lean on me. I have no concept of time passing. I have the feeling that they tell me something although I hear nothing, I am sure there is a communication, though unable to mention any content or formal expression of it. As for what I feel - everything is serenity, benevolence, love - I bathe in the fullness, I dare say perfect happiness.

Suddenly I hear, 'That's it, he is back!' and I see someone giving me a heart massage. He stops, looks at me and tells me that hopefully he did not break any of my ribs, but that he had to do this.

At the moment where I regained consciousness, during the split second where we do not really know where - or when, or who is there - I thought, 'Who is this idiot who wakes me up right at the moment where I have never ever been so well.' Then, I quickly regained my consciousness and realized what had happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  19 12 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Ventricular fibrillation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know - probably during the experience with the familiar presences.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Concept of completely distorted time: Long? Short? - it didn't make sense.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Notions of in front/behind, up/down, no longer really had the same meaning.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were familiar presences and extremely caring. I felt they told me something although I heard nothing, I am sure there was a communication though I am unable to mention any content or formal expression of it. My feeling was of serenity, benevolence, love.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Soft ambient light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See the story.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholique

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholique

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I am not sure, since I am speaking about an EXPERIENCE that cannot be shared.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Through this experience, I acquired the knowledge that death is not the end of life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several months later, with my relatives who had some trouble to accept that I experienced something. I did not really express the desire to return with them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read the book 'Life After Life' at the time of its release. I did not believe it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is hard to say since I was rather focused on the fact of still being alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I did a few steps on the path of the afterlife and I saw nothing scary, quite the contrary.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1desmond_f_nde.html