{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1derric_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Derric B NDE 2103","mylang":"de"}
          	        Derric B NDE 2103  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Derric B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						546  Derric B NDE  2103  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  It was summertime and I was at a church swimming party and cook out. We where all in the pool playing I was on a raft hanging on the side of the pool. One of the ladies called out food is ready. Everybody was getting out of the pool when one kid thought it would be funny to toss me off the raft as he got out of the pool. As I was tossed off the raft, I tried to stay to the side of the pool and to stay above the water but panic soon set in. As the panicking got worse, I started to go under. As I go under, I can't get back to the surface of the water. I soon start to scream for help, not even realizing that I'm under water. I soon start to breath in water then darkness comes.

When I wake from the darkness, I look around as if nothing happened until I see that I'm floating. I look down and see a boy face down floating in the water with no movement, no life, not even realizing at the time that I'm looking at myself. Then everything goes black but I'm aware somehow. Then this light slowly engulfs everything. As this is happening, I feel a warmth, love, and peace that words are hard to describe. I then hear a voice that tells me that it's not my time yet and I must go back.

I then wake up leaning over a rocking chair throwing up water wanting to go back to where I had just come from. I then passed out and woke up in the hospital connected to pumps and life support. As I lie in bed, my dad was there the whole time and never left my side. I asked him who is the man at the foot of my bed but they told me nobody was there - but the man stayed there until the day I left the hospital. It's like he disappeared.

The person who gave me mouth to mouth and chest compressions was a boy scout around ten to twelve years of age. The whole drowning was published in the Daily Oklahoman and my family and the boy scouts family was invited to the state capitol from the governor. The governor gave the Boy Scout an award and me free swimming lessons but I never learned to until twenty-eight years of age by the U.S. Navy Seals instructors. The Boy Scout now works for the Oklahoma City Fire Department. Since the accident, I feel like I see life and everything different from everybody else. I also feel like I'm searching for something but don't know what. I have felt this way since the accident. I'm still searching, don't know if I will ever find it here in this world. God bless everyone.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 summer 1981  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         drowning  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Drowning  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Seemed more in tune with life in general.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was engulfed by the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear glasses but while I was in the light I didn't need them or have them.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     As I was in the light I passed partly into it but was stopped.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Just heard a voice from everywhere. I told it I wanted to stay but didn't speak that - thought it in a way.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It's a light, a very bright one, but on the other hand it wasn't light at all it was warm and comforting.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No pain or suffering, felt calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   nazarene  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   nazarene  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I seem to understand and see things different from everybody else my parents had my body tested shortly after for any lasting effects I was submitted to magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalogram, electrocardiogram, cat scan's, and sleep studies. They found that my brain and neurological thinking is ten times more than the average person.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sometimes feel things around me but not of this world, but it is sketchy.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Days after with my family, my family believes that I am different from everyone else.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     No doubt about it this was a life changing real event. It was the thing that unlocked things in my mind.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Unlimited knowledge and questions.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You have heard the saying read between the lines. As a society, we tend to stick between these lines and are scared to go outside them. As a society we should look at the whole picture, not always between the lines as society tells us.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1derric_b_nde.html