{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1derrick_other.html","mytitle":"Derrick Birth Experiences 5167","mylang":"de"}
          	        Derrick Birth Experiences 5167  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Derrick Birth Experiences  					  					  						Home  						Classification Other  			2692 Derrick Birth Experiences 5167  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Hello everyone as promised here is my interesting spiritual or out of body experience. In many ways, it has a lot of things in common with most NDEs. But what separates it from all NDEs is when it happened.

It didn't happen in the last few years or not even happened while I was a young child or infant. It happened sometime either while I was in the womb or at the very most it was the very first memory or experience I ever had before my soul entered my body.

As of now, I really don't know for sure what caused my experience. It could have been an actual NDE during my rocky development process, it could have been a dream or some sort of imaginative experience or at the very most, it could have very well been the memory of my soul being created.

Before I give you all the exact details of my experience, I want for us to go backwards in a sense. I want to first give you the background details about my birth and the immediate details surrounding my birth. Second, I want to give the details about the memories I had while I was in my mother's womb. And finally the details of the experience itself.

Now when I was born, I was supposed to have been born in early June. Instead, I was born in late March. At the time of my birth my mother had got very sick and the doctors told her in order to save my life as well as hers I would had to be delivered via cesarean section.

So I ended up being cut out of my mother's womb. In fact, I remember clearly looking up at the doctors with their masks on and watching them reach for me and carry me out. After that I remember it being somewhat painful and traumatic I don't know for sure if they held me upside down to get me to cry or not but I do remember the burning pain either when they were cutting the umbilical cord or when they were performing circumcision.

I remember staying a long time at the hospital since I was so small the doctors were scared about my lungs, heart, and eyesight. From what I was later told by my parents I had a underdeveloped heart and lungs and I was first given medicine to further the development and if that didn't work (especially for my heart) the doctors would have to perform open heart surgery.

I was placed in an incubator with breathing tubes and other wires around me. I remember fidgeting with them since they felt strange to me. I also remember being in a room with other incubators and I would look at them quite often. Another bad experience, I remember having was when the doctors were doing a test on my eyes.

I remember being taken into a dark room and having them place some sort of clips on my eyes to keep them open and I remember seeing some sort of chart being lit up. The thing I remember most of all from that experience was the fear and the pain I felt, because even though I kept hearing kind voices (I guess telling me it would be okay) just the fact I had these strange clip things over my eyes was a very uncomfortable and strange experience. As far as I know from discussing this with my parents, these memories do indeed check out so it gives me pretty much certain proof that I was indeed able to remember these things.

Now going further backwards, I also was fortunate enough, gifted enough, or as I feel lucky enough to be able to remember specific things about what it was like being in my mother's womb. As far as I know, these things check out as well. First, I remember sleeping quite a lot.

But when I was awake I would always try to take in what I was seeing, hearing, feeling, and tasting. I remember it being dark as in seeing black most of the time while in the womb, other times I remember seeing dark red. Other times like when my mother was outside or in a well lit room, I would see orange and yellow colors.

I remember seeing what looked like red veins coming from my the amniotic sac I was in. Also, because my mother worked as a waitress even while pregnant with me, I remember many times being disturbingly awaken by loud groups of people talking. It sounded a lot like the gibberish noise that you first encounter when you walk into a crowded room.

I also remember when I would get rudely woke up from sleeping after hearing loud noises such as those from hearing people talk around me I not only remember kicking but kicking over and over just constantly until I felt better. Another big thing I remember was tasting various things. I mostly remember tasting chocolate somehow. I later found out that my mother while pregnant with me loved to eat chocolate cake doughnuts.

Now for the experience itself. This is very difficult to remember all the details since as far as I know this was one of if not the very first memory I have of anything. From the best of what I can remember, I was almost like in a disembodied state surrounded by a being of bright golden light.

I remember this being had massive hands and he cradled and caressed me in his hands. I remember him having a voice that was deep, strong and powerful but yet gentle and loving at the same time. I don't know for sure what he said to me since I couldn't understand language at the time but I could think in concepts or feelings such as I could easily tell if someone was talking in a loving way, sad way or angry way.

I remember being in a the most wonderful state of peace and love that even to this day I have never felt anything close to. I remember seeing either the spirits or the spirit bodies of other babies that were about to be fitted with their earthly body. They were like swirling around this powerful being who was holding me and even looked like they could have been coming forth every time he spoke.

At one point, I remember this being taking me from the cradled position and placing me on his shoulder as if he was trying to show me something. Then he took me into his hands for a final time and then I found myself going backwards down a dark tunnel while still seeing a hint of light from where I once was and then almost like with a thud I found myself in my body.

I remember feeling immediately, once I found myself in my body, that I just had a wonderful and powerful experience and that I needed to remember it. I didn't think in those exact words or even in words but I thought through concepts or even feelings.

Now I certainly understand if whomever is reading this is very skeptical of my experience. I am too as well. As far as I can tell from what I've learned about as far as the paranormal, brain science and biology here are some things it could have been.

1. While in the womb during development I had a NDE.

2. While in the womb during development I had a very powerful dream.

3. A complete or half-true fabrication (I wonder the same thing about other people's NDEs and other spiritual experiences).

4. The option I hope is true - a real experience taking place outside the natural world and outside my physical body. Which could have been the process where my soul was created by God, where I got to mingle and get to briefly know God, and where my soul was then put together with my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Between Oct. 1983 and late March 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Fetal development process  Other My experience at the very most could very well be a pre conception experience or ensoulment experience.  I'm somewhat uncertain, if the event was a NDE than I was facing a life threatening event while in the womb.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All throughout since it began until I was connected with my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I guess I did, at the time it felt very normal. But under the circumstances I was under I guess it would to anyone else.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Hard to tell since that was one of my very first profound memories in my life.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as question #8.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like the typical dark tunnel with a hint of light at the end but in my case I was going backwards into my body instead of forwards.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I think I saw other spirits or spirit bodies of other infants about ready to be placed into bodies by God.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright swirling golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As far as I know (and hope) I was in the the presence of God. I didn't experience another level so to speak, I was with God, and then later I was back in my body with a dark tunnel in between.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace and curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     All I know is what I remember from the experience, since as far as I know those were the very first things I learned about.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I don't know considering how early in my life that it was along with the various doubts I have about the experience I don't know if I did obtain special knowledge or not.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I do know I am blessed with a very good memory of past events (could even be a powerful photographic memory) but other than that it is hard to say.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love, the sights, the sound of the being talking to me and the fact that when I felt myself go into the womb I thought (in concepts or emotions) 'I need to remember this experience, this is so powerful and wonderful'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared it with various friends and family members. Just like I expected, and much like how I would be if someone else told me this happened to them, they were very skeptical, as they should be.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I describe what my experience could be (along with what I hope it was) in the primary text of my experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Well I still have tons of unanswered questions about these kinds of experiences along with what our brains are indeed capable of (i.e. whether or not our brains can indeed induce these experience or trick us into having them).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing other than I hope to talk with atheists/naturalists to either find out what caused this experience, other people who believe in the existence of the soul (like non-materialist brain scientists) and with people who have had NDEs or OBEs themselves.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope that will be it. Thank you all for your time. Take care and God bless.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1derrick_other.html