{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1destri_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Destri B Probable NDE 180","mylang":"de"}
          	        Destri B Probable NDE 180  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Destri B Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1439 Destri B Probable NDE 180  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was playing in my auntie's room with my cousins when I decided to climb up the window to see what it looks like. So there I was just standing on the windowsill with my superman pajamas on.  These pajamas had plastic feet.  I had a towel around my neck for the cape.  At the time, I was wondering what it would feel like to fly. Then out of nowhere, my aunty came in to check on us. When she opened the door I heard it squeak, and quickly did a one hundred and eighty degree turn to see whom it was and slipped landing head first on the ground. Then my aunty rushed to wake my mom up, then my mom rushed down the stairs and picked me up, before she could do anything else, she had to push my face back together. Then she wrapped a towel over my head and called a cab (the cab was quicker because it was parked just up the road from the residence. Then they rushed me into the emergency room. They couldn't stitch me up because I was crying too much so my mom went to get my uncle Lance who was in the waiting room. So he came in and sat me up on the table, he started rubbing my back to sooth me and whispered in my ear, 'Shhhh, Destri. It's okay. You'll be okay. You have to stop crying so the doctors can fix you. Will you do that for your uncle?' Then he laid me down on the table and told the doctors to stitch me up. When they were done I had a hundred and forty stitches on my face and in my mouth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  oct,6 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Me falling out a two story window at the age of one.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in a third-person state. I was looking down onto the operating table with my grandma holding my hand who I have never seen in my life except pictures.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just doctors talking.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, who died five years before I was born.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light surrounded my grandma and that's it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The room I was in had no floor and you could see into the emergency room and waiting room.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Was too young to feel anything but was relaxed by the sight of my grandma and her warm hand.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Was too young, haven't lived long enough to go through that.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The scar left on my face is a reminder of what life's unexpected turns and twisted sense of humor. People say they can't hardly see it but I see it every day.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have been able to see the future but not able to change it!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part is I got this scar, the worst part is I got this scar and the doctors said I shouldn't play any contact sports.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They tell me they can hardly see the scar and say it builds character.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   All my other experiences are too long to go into great detail, but I almost broke my neck and my throat was collapsed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1destri_b_probable_nde.html