{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denny_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Denny B NDE\/ADC 31028","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denny B NDE/ADC 31028  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denny B NDE/ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						873  Denny B NDE/ADC  31028  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was being dragged (my spirit) by my two personal angels, light beings, by both arms, between them.  I did not go through a tunnel of light, I was immediately there.  They helped me across a long white bridge. To my left about halfway across the bridge was a large city made of light.  The colors were silver blue, white, and silver.  It looked like crystal light.  I was getting better as we approached the end of the bridge, and entered into a large white dome at the end of the bridge.  I sat there as my two personal or guardian angels communicated with the others seated on the circumference of the interior of the dome.  The communication was telepathic.  I heard the voices, but did not speak.  I knew that they were talking about me.  They were deciding if I should be admitted into the city and then into the heavens, or return to earth.  The general consensus among the beings there, including my two guardians, was that I should stay.  A leader among them stood and asked me directly, ‘You have free will, and the choice to stay or return to earth is yours.’  I said, ‘I have a daughter that must know who I am, and also earth is in a lot of darkness right now.  They need as many people with good heartedness within them alive and on earth right now.  For these reasons I would like to return and complete my mission.’   

Immediately I felt renewed strength.  I stood and was guided by four guardian angels from the dome.  As I passed the city, I could sense all of them there.  I sent love from my heart to them.  I felt at least 10,000 other hearts return that love to me.  This made me even more renewed as I left with my four guardian angels, two on each side of me.  I woke up in I.C.U. after that.  There were birds on my window sill there.  The doctors said that it was unusual for them to be there in the winter snow and cold winds, but that they were there the whole time I was.  I was then moved into a regular hospital room for three days of observation. 

I could feel that I had angel wings on my back, so I sat up in bed for three days so I would not lay down on my invisible wings.  They were the same color as the city I had seen.  After three days, the feeling of the wings went away, and my wife came and picked me up for the trip home. 

I still have diabetes, and three other diseases.  I completed massage school but have been too ill after working for nine months at that position.  I go up and down in my health but I did get to meet my daughter at her older age, and she knows who I am.  I told her about my experiences, and her mother and her family think that I am crazy.  My daughter is 12 this May, and she thinks I am crazy too.  But I guess I am still alive to serve the greater good.  I have a good heart and have always worked in service of others as a profession. 

I hope that this helps others in facing their challenges in life.  I am still in a lot of physical pain each day, but I believe it is serving a higher purpose.  I don't know what all the answers are but this has been my experience. Thank you for allowing me to share it.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    December 24, 1995 to December 27, 1995

NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It felt like there was a space of no time.  Moments passed, but no time passed on earth.  I was in the coma for three days, yet when I woke up fully I felt like I had been gone for twenty minutes at the most.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   No Response   I have recently returned to the Catholic church, but I am open to all belief systems and respect the beliefs of others.

What is your religion now?      No Response   same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I had a little doubt about an afterlife, and a little fear about death.  Those are gone now.

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    N0 comment

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part about it all was a feeling of love.  I don't believe there is a Hell, but several levels of heaven.  Even in the Bible, it says hell is not for humans, but for Lucifer and his fallen angels alone.  The fear of death and hell are such a complete falsehood and a crime against our creator.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most don't believe me.  It seems like you have to be rich or successful or have an improved health condition or something to prove you had the experience.  Many church priests believe I was deceived by the devil.  What a crazy notion to a beautiful experience.  A lot of religious people say I was sent back when I tell them I chose to come back.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I felt it was a reality more real than the one we are currently in on earth.  It felt like it had more substance and permanence whereas here everything seems very temporary.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I guess I want to say that it was a very calming feeling.  I let go of my body and death was easy.  It was less traumatic than being born for sure. Ha.  I hope that my story can calm some fears people may have about death.  It comes when it is time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denny_b_nde.html