{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise Probable NDE 7741","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise Probable NDE 7741  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3986 Denise Probable NDE 7741  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Following a pharyngitis that wasn't healing, I woke up with a swollen face. My eye was almost completely closed.

I was urgently operated on because I was diagnosed with septicemia, abscesses in my lungs, and I had a clot in the left jugular vein that had a high chance of causing several strokes.

My last conscious memory was my arrival at the operating room and the beginning of anesthesia. At that moment, I didn't know at all of  which kind of pathology I was suffering. I just knew that, seeing the general panic in the surgery room, it must have been very serious.

I was than in total blackness.

Surrounding me was fog. I can distinguish some forms, but they pass me on my right and left side without seeing me.

I review my life, from my infancy until the meeting with my fiancé. The flashes are not flashes, but they resemble big pictures with golden frames and very beautiful moldings. I'm visiting the gallery of my life.

I know that I'm advancing straight forward, pushed by some unfamiliar instinct. There is no space for reason and there is no goal. I have to go forward and that's all.

Time doesn't exist.

There is no path, yet I know that I'm going straight forward.

As a background music I hear the song 'I just call to say I love you'.

Then, something is changing. I'm getting aware of a voice.  The voice seems to come from afar; it's neither a female nor a male voice. It just tells me, 'Turn right now' and I have to change my path.

Making a great psychical effort, I achieve making my body move to the right.  This is taking an effort, it's so difficult. I have the impression having to make changing direction to an enormous ship, with just one paddle.

Then I woke up from a deep coma of 8 days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  24/04/2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I suffered from a cellulitis of head and neck tissues, as well as from Lemierre's syndrome. [Editor’s Notation: Lemierre’s syndrome is a very rare condition whereby a throat infection leads to a secondary infection and blood clot formation in the internal jugular vein.]

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  My fiancé was often listening to the song ’I just call to say I love you’, at home when he had to leave for the hospital. When he was encouraging me to come out of the coma, my oxygen saturation went back up, as well as my heart rate and my blood pressure.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As Above

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at no time in a profound coma, my Glasgow score was at 7.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time doesn't exist over there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm very shortsighted and yet my vision was perfect, very clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have very fine hearing, but during the experience, sounds, the music seemed to come from everywhere.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were white beings, almost like fog, looking like human beings. None familiar, strangers.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was very black there, there was fog, no street, no path. It was not a cramped place; it seemed without beginning or end.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, until the moment when I was told to change my way, there I had the sensation that I had to struggle with my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I saw my whole childhood again, up to the moment when I met my fiancé, some 15 years ago, all this happened in the form of pictures.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     The birth of my future daughter.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   At the moment when I was told to turn right, to change my path, I became aware of my body, and there I was struggling against it, what took a huge amount of effort, but I arrived to turn to the right, then I awakened. I couldn't say if my waking happened immediately after this. All I know is that I didn't want to continue advancing straight forward, and something told me that I could change direction.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I very strongly believe in the virtues of Saint Rita, advocate of desperate causes.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I thought that in such an experience you would meet your deceased relatives. I didn't see any of them.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Money, material goods have no importance anymore, all this is but a futility of life. Before I was worried how to get along financially, pay invoices, and such, now I don't worry anymore about this, everything will be done in its own time.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw beings passing me at my right and left side who seemed not to see me. I heard a voice, neither female nor male, telling me to change my path, to turn right.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     When we love somebody, and when this person loves us, we remain connected.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I stopped seeing persons who said they were my friends, without any remorse. I prefer being with persons that really appreciate me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s about a sensory experience; it wasn't until the moment when I was told to change my path that I became aware of my body. In this state, you are not reflecting, you undergo the experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  The colors, the clouds of fog, the music, all this remains very clear in my mind, while I couldn't tell you how I was dressed when I left for the hospital.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm a psychic. I was reading the cards. After this, I stopped, yet I continue having visions and they are even more precise than before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it with my fiancé after a week; he confirmed about the song, he believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Via the media.  I didn't experience a similar experience as those described in the media.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     If this had only been a dream, it would not push me to search for answers. It would not be in my daily thoughts.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As Above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_probable_nde.html