{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denver_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Denver P NDE 3465","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denver P NDE 3465  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denver P NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1535 Denver P NDE 3465  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The warm and commanding voice of Christ asked me one simple question, 'Denver, are you prepared to leave?' I pleaded with Him to allow me to live because my best friend at the time had refused to come to know Christ as his Savior, and my mother would be destroyed without me. I was semi-conscious at this moment. The room was dark and half lit with all kinds of medical technology breathing for me, monitoring my vital signs, and the kinds of things you would see in an ICU. Yet, when Christ's voice spoke to me, the whole room seemed to become brighter than normal. 

I'm not sure if I fell asleep or blacked out after this. I had not slept all night because of the gasping laborious attempts to breathe and get oxygen. I floated and traversed over the greenest prairie of tall grass. I could not believe that my being was floating above the ground. It was more exhilarating than any roller coaster! In the center was a very ancient and Holy tree which I believe was the Tree of Life. Beings of all spectrum of light also floated and traveled about. There was no pain.  There was no suffering.  I felt a sense of euphoric calm that is very difficult to express in words. Remember now, it was during this time that the doctor had told my mother to prepare of the possibility of losing me. All beings chanted the graces of God and praised him. I feel a leap of excitement every time I relive that moment! 

I was pulled back down through a dark tunnel back into the ICU, where medical staff were preparing me to leave. They were at this point rushing me to the nearest regional hospital, to see the region's leading expert on pulmonary issues. I was later told that they were going to open up my chest and remove the clot. I remember gasping for air! I was removed from the breathing machine. They had a trachea tube coming out of my throat. They attached a large rubber bulb connected to tank of oxygen, and squeezed it rhythmically to breath for me. 

When I arrived 45 minutes later at the regional hospital the expert began running X-rays and other tests. Very frustrated, he called the doctor at the hospital I'd just been sent from. He was quoted as saying, 'Doctor, you send me a dying boy needing surgery and I'll be damned if I can find a thing wrong with him!'  The doctor was floored! On later follow up visits to see him, after being released from ICU, he kept repeating that he saw no other alternative than to call this a miracle from God!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Criminal attack  Blood clot broke off from my back right thigh and entered into the central location of the lungs.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   The doctor had set up an IV for a sulfa based blood thinner to dissolve the massive blood clot in my lungs. I began to hemorrhage in the stomach and other organs. The doctor told my mother that she should begin to get things in order, as it was unlikely that I would make it through. I was given less than 15% chance of recovery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say my most heightened sense of awareness and alertness was when I was being addressed by Christ with his loving question to stay or leave.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My time in the prairie seemed like years.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Unbelievably so! A dark room became bright enough with the warm light of Christ. There were no shadows or dark places in ICU.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Before blacking out and while I was being addressed by Christ I could hear every single thing the nurses and doctors were saying across the room. Unfortunately, 15 years later, I cannot remember what was said.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Momentarily dark, then the opening to the prairie with the most vivid, crisp, green, tall grass that I could ever imagine!

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The ominous light and the light of other beings - elongated orbs with a spectrum of light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I'm not sure if I fell asleep or blacked out after this. I had not slept all night because of the gasping laborious attempts to breath and get oxygen. I floated and traversed over the most greenest prairie of tall grass. I could not believe that my being was floating above the ground. It was more exhilarating than any roller coaster! In the center was a very ancient and Holy tree which I believe was the tree of Life. Beings of all spectrum of light also floated and traveled about. There was no pain, no suffering, a sense of euphoric calm that is very difficult to express in words.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       JOY! Warmth! Exhilaration! Euphoria! Love!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The missed opportunities to witness Christ and lightning speed reviews of events great and small while I pleaded my case to Christ to live.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There is no doubt of the existence of Christ.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is no doubt of the existence of Christ.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am closer to my family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I strayed from my faith. I was able to accurately describe emotions, past life events and pregnancies of anyone who asked me. I did repent and turn away from doing this. I don't know if I could ever do it again, even if I wanted to try.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My experience near the Tree of Life and being spoken to by Christ.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me a year. Many scoffed. I kept it a personal experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The validation from a medical specialist, who called my healing a 'Miracle of God'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm sure there are other moments that I could try to relive, but none at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denver_p_nde.html