{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise T NDE 31943","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise T NDE 31943  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2729 Denise T NDE 31943  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I overdosed on pain meds and was dead for several minutes. I had to have adrenaline shot into my heart. 

While I was gone, I found myself lying in the grass in a big field filled with beautiful daisies of all different sizes. There were hills and trees in the distance. I experienced a feeling of great love and understanding.  While I was there, I really didn't want to leave that place, but I just knew that when I came back, everything would be OK!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was such a feeling of “knowing” that my consciousness was not in my body.  Since coming back, the feeling of what being separated from my body was like is still very clear in my mind.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Slightly drowsy

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no feeling of time as we understand it. It was like I could go backwards or forward in time, as I pleased.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   believed christian until I had my experience showed me I was here to experience these feelings of happiness and pain

What is your religion now?       Uncertain   I know there's something after

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel that there is someone I can go to when events like this happen. But it's not really a someONE, like a person, or like a family member. It's a "knowing" that I have, and this "knowledge" gives me the sort of guidance that I used to ask my friends and family for.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I now know that I chose to do this life on Earth.  I also know that I will go back to the other side after experiencing what I want to experience on Earth.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Sometimes people look at me as weird, like when I have a grin on my face because I'm seeing things that only *I* know and feel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just having no fear was the best.  Now I when I worry about things, as I still do sometimes, I remind myself to just do what I can to help others, and remember that possessions and material objects don't really matter.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience with a very Christian woman.  She looked at the NDE through the Christian lens of her Bible beliefs. Personally, I don't think there's a God that's going to judge us.  I don’t believe that God will stand at the gates and hear what we did right or wrong in order for us to get into heaven.  I believe everyone chose this Earth experience, whether they now believe it or not!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just know it was real. I can feel it throughout my body and my thoughts every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thanks!  Just thought I'd write it down somewhere today, thanks.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_t_nde.html