{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_n_possible_nde_7479.html","mytitle":"Denise N Possible NDE 7479","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise N Possible NDE 7479  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise N Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3823 Denise N Possible NDE 7479  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I talked to the doctor and said I was suspicious that I also had a cyst in my left tonsil.  I thought it was growing into the throat because I felt it for a while. My tonsils became infected and hard.  They would swell up, cause bad breath, and I always had a fever.  This problem got worse in the last years and the doctors took at least two years to do the surgery. The doctor said I shouldn’t worry because they would fix the situation and clean all the mess. As I understand it, my tonsils reached the point I call rotten. 

Before the surgery, I was on the gurney.  They gave me medicine and I ready to go to the surgery room. All went well in the surgery room. I was a little anxious, but in a good mood. I talked to the anesthetist as he put the mask on me.  I lost consciousness.  

In that phase, the doctor wasn't beside me, only the nurses and the anesthetist were there. The next thing I remember is standing beside the surgery table a few meters away, watching a body lying on a table. It was like a dream; I could not discern the details. I found myself there, during the surgery, looking at that scene and escorted by beings that looked like white figures arranged in a U-shape. They were with me a few meters away around the table. One of them near my right side was tall; I only reached his shoulder.  He wore a white garb and I could see a pocket, like the ones in a shirt. 

I was amazed with what was happening.  I was watching over the body that was escorted by all those beings.  There were about 20 beings.  The being that looked like a doctor said by thought, ‘We are here to heal that body.’ I did not know the body on the table was me.  It had a garb that reached the knees.  I felt happy and completely safe. One being escorted me while assuring me that everything was well and nothing could fail. Those beings radiated love and I felt the room filling with love.  I felt peace and a well-being I have never felt before. 

In the midst of it, I felt the being next to me starting to move his arms very quickly, and at the same time, the person who was working on the head of that body moved his arms with similar movements. Time passed and I was intensely feeling the love that was radiated by those beings, which filled the room completely. They were in a U-shape, like an energy-block, where I saw waves similar to those one sees above the sand on the beach. When it is very hot, these waves started at the body’s feet and moved towards the head. Meanwhile, I understand the being next to me was in a kind of fight with the person who was working on the body.  I felt him annoyed, because he was, with difficulty, in command of that person’s actions. In that persistence I saw smoke, like arms coming out of the being’s arms, over the table and they enveloped the person who was working on the body. 

Time passed.  The love inside the room was so intense and I felt a peace and a well-being like I have never felt before, as if I was absolutely sure that everything was going to be okay. We were all together, taking care of that body.  What seemed like a couple of hours later, after such insistence of the being who was working with the surgeon, I saw a smoke-like figure, with his size over the table and it enveloped the surgeon. 

I woke up in the recovery room, feeling that happiness and in a good mood. I told the nurses about the experience and they said I had a beautiful dream. When the anesthetist came, I tried to tell him but he joked and said, ‘Were you watching? You should have taken the opportunity to ask them the lottery numbers.’ Later the surgeon came in and I tried to tell her too, but she asked, ‘Did you see the surgery?’ and I replied, "Yes." 

Three days after, I was still in the recovery room. I scratched my right leg on the shin, next to an old nodule that was an ingrown hair and it started to bleed. The next day, I was looking at it; it formed five or six little crusts in the form of a coin about 20 cents of euro.  I thought: maybe they touched here with something during surgery.  I didn’t even think about it, because if it was so, it would have appeared right after the surgery. 

A month later, there began to appear small glands about the size of rice grains, around the tonsils, I was scared and went to the doctor to learn the biopsy result and it was negative. During the next few months the tonsils grew, they are small and they are doing their job. In several appointments with my doctor, she told me she never had seen a reaction like that. 

My curiosity about the subject was great.  Two months ago, I finally succeeded in telling my doctor what had happened to me and she heard everything from the beginning until the end and when I told her about the person's distress who worked on the body and how the being was interacting with that person, she said, ‘It’s giving me the creeps.’ When I told her about the mark that formed a few days later in the crusts, she said, ‘It was a sign they left.’ She began to tell me about a case, that she and some other doctors were working on, of a 12 years old girl who didn't listen to anything at all. She didn't learn anything at her school, and she was considered mentally disabled. Meanwhile, the girl started to get better with the treatments they were doing. They became suspicious: she was listening and tested her.  They were astounded, because the tests showed she was listening perfectly and meanwhile, the girl was normal. 

During several times with my doctor, I heard her talk about the love of God. Nowadays, I believe in God’s love. I’m not afraid of dying. In conclusion I am aware that we the human beings are the most developed beings reached by genesis, at least on our planet.  In our dimension, and if we have an adequate interaction, which implicates several attitudes and ways of living with that energy, we can have a full life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  31-01-2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.    Other: Surgery on the tonsils.  From what I gather, it was when the medical surgeon began cut into the left tonsil area to get them out by the roots.  They gave me more anesthesia, and the 20 minutes scheduled for the surgery became more than 2 hours. Another curious thing is that what I heard was far away and I couldn't understand what was being said. Later, I realized they were students who were there watching the surgery because of what the nurses told me.  I heard those sounds, so I know it wasn't a dream.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The voices I heard far away were real people working there which I heard once in a while. I realize the beings from other dimension were also real, for the progress of my recuperation even matches what I was told. In addition, it matched what the doctor felt during surgery and the time; everything I investigated matched.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always there, in retrospect, feeling 100%.  It was there that I didn't know who that body was which I saw lying there, because my total being was standing watching.  It was from the point where the surgeon went into distress by not realizing the roots of the left adenoid were in a danger zone where it could end badly, this was during a couple of hours.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all its meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had been there standing, looking, it was the room that was darker than when I was awake, the images were very blurred, but as I heard voices it was as if I was awake on the outside standing and looking.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was weak, I heard voices far away, I didn’t understand what they were talking about, but it seemed the conversations were between the medical staff working and watching. I know this because of what was told to me by the nurses, but what I saw were the immense beings in block.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I have no idea who they were; I only knew they were there to help me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt total peace, total protection, no fear, no anguish, and no pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   fui educada na religiao cristã, mas, na actualidade acredito é na ciencia que estuda 'o genesis'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   acredito no genesis, na energia suprema, no amor de deus, mas sempre visto pelo lado da ciencia, ou 'adepta' da ciencia ' o segredo ' e toda a ciencia que trabalha o 'desenvolvimento pessoal'

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     eu nao acreditava nem acredito em espiritos, e por isso fico confusa, gostava muito de saber quem eram aquelas presenças

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God exists, supreme energy, genesis or whatever you want to call it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The being next to me seemed to be a doctor, he was tall and I only reached his shoulder, and I could see his white garb. As far as I’m concerned, he did the surgery. There were also lots of beings, maybe 20, but I only saw white smoky shapes radiating collective energy all at the same time.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   nao faço a minima ideia de quem eram, so sabia que estavam ali comigo para ajudar

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     e como se a existencia fosse infinita, nao tinha nem antes, nem depois

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     algum coisa ha de certeza absoluta

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     eu vi seres que nao faço ideia do que eram

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     a sensação que tive é que a existencia é sempre o eu é o eu sempre o eu é o que existe, e esse eu do lado de fora era o meu corpo tal como agora, com o meu eu

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     aquele amor é algo inesquecivel e consigo lembrar-me sempre dele com a mesma clareza

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life. I have created new tonsils, which are working.     Moderate changes in my life. I have created new tonsils, which are working.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings for being next to those beings were like they were unconditional friends, they protect me, I felt so protected and the peace was absolute.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The emergence of new adenoids, is at least strange, that was even something inexplicable.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People are often confused. Some say for sure that there is something more than dying.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read the book ‘life after life’ twenty or so years ago.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Because of the situations I was wondering about the surgery matching the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     By the evidence that I mentioned.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I fell 12 years ago, and suffered a head injury. While I was lying on the ground I felt like I was moving through cosmos, where I realized the existence of supreme energy, and it was like being inside ‘God’s files’ where I could realize that in there is everything that has happened, is happening and will happen and the intelligence of this energy.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like that what happened to my tonsils could be analyzed, and how it explains what happened.  Of course, that could contribute to the studies that are being made to find out what is existence and if death exists or not. Because for me, and for anyone on this planet, is the most important thing you should know: it would change everything. If we found out who God is, the actual mechanisms, the interaction between human beings, I believe, we could live fully.  The feeling I had is that existence is always the self, is the self always, the self is what is, and that self was outside my body as happens now with my ‘self’.  It was as if the existence was infinite, not having either a before or an after. There is something for sure, that connects us universally.  

  Love is something unforgettable and I can remember it always just as clearly.   I didn’t believe nor do I believe now in spirits, so I get confused, I would like to know who those beings were.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is very good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_n_possible_nde_7479.html