{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise H NDE 5002","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise H NDE 5002  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2582 Denise H NDE 5002  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I waited for the ambulance to pick me up, I was pulled out of the car, which was in flames, and put on the back of a pickup truck. I could barely breathe and felt nauseous.  One of my lungs was punctured and my intestines and stomach had burst. The men by my side kept telling me not to close my eyes but I couldn't help it - I was getting tired, my eyes were feeling heavy and I wanted to rest. I fought as much as I could, though eventually I could no longer hear the EMT's voice, I felt warm, and all my pain went away. There was light, I remember - just an illuminated space and nothing else that was visible. I was very aware that I was passing over and I was not afraid. I did not see or think of any of my loved ones. I was completely alone and totally at peace. I remember being surprised that I wasn't afraid. For a second I thought I would die, but shortly afterward realized that I had to go back and needed to fight for my life with the EMT. I remember coming back and feeling pain and discomfort but with confidence that I was being looked after and would be okay. I remember being very calm and thinking that I was in that truck for an hour, when in fact it had been more like ten at the most.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   It was a car accident. We were in a new Suburban merging onto the freeway when a Probe driving in the opposite direction lost control, drove over the grassy median separating the two-lane freeways going in opposing directions, and hit us head-on. The car I was in crushed the Probe, killing the three passengers in that car. Everyone in the Suburban survived but were knocked out instantly, except for me. I was conscious in the moments right after the accident and on/off later.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Toward the beginning and end I was confused and disoriented. In the midst of the experience I was at my most certain of what was happening to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In that moment space and time were no longer relevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was not much for me to see,  It was mostly light, so it is difficult to make a comparison.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was a space of light. I am unsure as to whether it was enclosed or not.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright, but not blinding at all. I felt like I was supported by it. I felt entirely comfortable and warm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peacefulness, excitement, happiness and confidence.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more certain that God exists.  However, I feel less connected to him now.  I am unsure why.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more certain that God exists.  However, I feel less connected to him now.  I am unsure why.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Nothing matters yet everything matters at the same time. Acceptance is more important than anything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel different.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt more than I saw or heard.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real so it helped me get through my recovery period. It helped me get back in a car without fear.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I'm unsure because I very well could have been hallucinating.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My parents both passed shortly after. The part of the experience that was recreated is the feeling of wanting to live with a great amount of energy.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_h_nde.html