{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise NDE 21249","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise NDE 21249  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						898  Denise NDE  21249  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was driving after 2:00 in the morning and I hit a telephone pole. My car was totaled.  When the fire department showed up, I was dead. I thought I was dreaming, because I could hear them talking. I heard one of the firemen say I was gone! I started floating. I could see the fireman trying to save me. I was all bloody. I was above my body watching everything! I started floating higher. I had never felt so peaceful! It is the best peace you could ever wish for! I was floating into some clouds. I saw my family and others I didn't know, but somehow I did know them. There was a bright light, and many people. Everybody was standing in the clouds and smiling. I felt peace. The place was so pretty and peaceful. I was floating into a light, but my father, who had passed away when I was fourteen years old, told me it wasn't my time yet, and he loved me, but for me to go back! The next thing I remember is that I woke up in the hospital.  The firemen joked around with me all the time, calling me the walking dead! But things after that started to get strange.  When I was little, I used to see things that no one else could see. For example, an old woman named Mrs. Rice passed away, but I kept seeing her. And I had dreams and sometimes they would come true.

But now I hardly sleep at night because, when I dream, most of my dreams come true! I had a dream about the hurricane that hit Louisiana last year. The only thing that was wrong was the name. I thought it was going to be Jose but it was the next one!

When I get around people, I can sense if they are going to pass away!  Everybody likes me; spirits come to my home and visit with me all the time. I know things before they happen, because I dream about them ahead of time. What has been bothering me lately is that I am seeing the number fourteen and this is a constant thing! And I know it means something! There is a Heaven! That I do know!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death .  I was dead twenty minutes upon arrival to hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was above my body, floating and watching everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I knew what was going on, but I thought I was dreaming.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The twenty minutes that my heart wasn't beating, seemed like slow motion. Like I was gone a long time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A lot of people talking from far away.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was clouds. A pathway to Heaven!

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I know I saw my family that passed away. Also other people and something else.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A very bright light, but the light did not hurt my eyes.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Very peaceful!

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     After the accident I could turn the radio off and on only using my mind.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Most of the time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know there is a heaven and when your body dies your soul lives on! Your body is a casing of your soul!

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I could move things back then, and my dreams are all mostly true now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the peace, and the worst was waking up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They loved me talking about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_nde.html