{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise C NDE 5143","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise C NDE 5143  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2678 Denise C NDE 5143  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Well, it was the winter of 1977. I was sick with pneumonia, and we had just had a blizzard. My dad was away on a business trip. My mom had to go to the basement to get something. I went into the kitchen, and I heard my mom call up to me to take my cough medicine. I went to take it, and I felt my body fall in slow motion. I heard my head hit the floor. My mom yelled up to me,' Is everything okay?' I felt that if I answered her, I would die. I felt like a battery that needed to be recharged. My mom ran upstairs and saw me lying on the kitchen floor. She yelled to my four-year-old sister, 'Melissa! Mommy needs your help! Something is wrong with Denise!' I was aware of my mom carrying me and putting me on the sofa. She told my sister to sit on the floor and to not let her sister fall off the sofa. My mom went to call the ambulance, but our phone was out due to the blizzard. She was wearing her pajamas, bathrobe, and slippers, and she ran across the street without a coat. Our street wasn't plowed yet. It took the ambulance about an hour to get to our house, even though the hospital was only six miles away from our house.

I was dead. I'm not sure for how long. I was at one end of a tunnel and I saw a group of people at the other end of it. From the background, a strong light was emanating, outlining the crowd with a beautiful yellow light. I could not see any of their faces - it was too dark. Two of the men, I knew, were my Irish grandfather's brothers. I could tell that's who they were because they were wearing the same type of hat my grandfather wore - those wool hats from the 1930s and 1940s. Then, I believe, Jesus spoke to me. It was such an incredible voice! The voice said, 'DENISE! GO BACK! IT'S NOT YOUR TIME YET!' This voice had the sound of every good and kind comment that had ever been made to me. Then I felt an electrical feeling, like a surge of energy rushing through me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  winter of 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    Other Not sure if I was clinically dead. However after my near death experience I came to with paramedics giving me CPR

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed like time slowed down.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I didn't actually enter the tunnel. I was at one end of it. I was, I guess, about to enter it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could not see their faces, but it was a large group of people.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was outlining the group of people at the other end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Before this, when I was a small child, I started to recall two past lives, and I can still recall them. Also, my deceased grandmother occasionally comes to me in my sleep. And sometimes my dreams come true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Can't recall.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My parents and my sister have always believed me. My husband and my brother are more analytical, and they don't believe it happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     From the start, I saw the experience as definitely real. I felt I was here for a reason.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as definitely real. I believe in these experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_c_nde.html