{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise B Probable NDE 5234","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise B Probable NDE 5234  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2736 Denise B Probable NDE 5234  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was rushed to the hospital for what was determined to be an emergency appendectomy. Going back a day or two, I had stomachache so my mother kept me home from school. The pain came and went which meant for large portions of my day out of school, I did what any normal eight-year-old would do. I played. My mother was very angry with me for appearing to be perfectly well. The next day despite my cries of stomach pain she sent me to school. During the course of the morning, I developed a fever, which increased rapidly. The nuns called my mother to come for me as I was vomiting and burning with fever. She insisted they send me home on foot. We lived several blocks from the school; back then, it was very safe for children to walk home alone. It seemed a very long way to Seminole Avenue where we rented a house. I made it vomiting along the way. The fever grew in intensity and hallucinations began. I say hallucinations because I saw things that were certainly not real such as a woman from my brownie troop knocked on the door with her daughter by her side. I saw them both as chimpanzees! Rushed to the hospital for emergency surgery, I went after totally humiliating my mom by calling her friend an ape!

The last thing I recall about being in the operating room was the anesthesiologist ordering someone to tie me down, hold my head in place and force the black rubber mask over my face to make me breathe in what was meant to put me to sleep for surgery. The physician had not yet arrived. I had seen only the surgical staff by this point. The next thing I knew I was in a room alone. I have no recollection of where my mother had gone nor whether my father had arrived to be with my mom. My next memory was of a nurse who had brought in a coloring book and crayons for me, a little after-surgery-gift for good patients she had told me. I recall telling her bits and pieces of what I had witnessed to which she responded something about the anesthesia doing unusual things to patients while they sleep. Somehow, I knew, she was wrong in her assumption. I could not tell her more because I was taught not to disrespect my elders.

Eventually, the doctor arrived to check on me. I handed him my coloring book where I had colored a picture of a doctor and little girl patient. The image I colored matched perfectly what my physician was wearing in that very moment! I had seen him and purposely colored the page to represent what I knew of him so he would surely believe I knew him prior to actually meeting him. In fact, when he entered my room he immediately began to introduce himself wherein I interrupted to inform him that I already knew him. That's when I held up the coloring page and offered it as a gift to him for doing such a good job with my surgery. He denied the possibility that I could know him when we had not met until that moment. Nothing I would tell him convinced him. I explained that I had heard him talking to the people who were helping him. He denied the possibility of this claiming I was deeply sedated and could hear nothing. I told him I had heard him telling a story to my mom which he also denied. I even tried telling him it was all right, everything was alright even though he didn't tell everything to my mom, it was alright because the angel had me anyway so I was safe. And in the end I didn't die so there was no problem to tell a little fib to my mom. He was very upset with me for saying so and denied everything I said. So I stopped talking. Again, it was disrespectful to argue with an adult and I would surely be in trouble with my mom for doing so if she found out.

I think I told one of the nuns at school some time later. There was one particular nun who was extra special and kind. I often spent time after school in the nuns' home eating cookies and juice and talking with them. They told me I was special and God had important work for me to do when I grew up. I guess that's why I felt comfortable telling the nun of my experience in the operating room.

As for what happened while my body was unconscious - all I recall is floating, then seeing light, beautiful light from which an angel appeared. I refer to the being now as an angel because back then I had learned of guardian angels in Catholic school. This being I referred to as a she but truly I could not say of which gender he/she was, only that there was long light colored hair, and white gown of soft flowing cloth. She put her hand behind me but never touched me. However, I felt as if she was guiding me somewhere. I realized even then we were talking but without words or use of our mouths which fascinated me at that time. 

I guess that was my first lesson in telepathic communication. She (let's give her female gender only to make this easier to explain) told me not to worry that I was safe and everything would be all right. I wasn't worried. In her presence, I felt very safe and loved. She was extremely kind. She explained that she must take me somewhere special so we floated along. That was the next detail that fascinated me. We were floating not walking! Hey, I was only eight, this was exciting! I had only seen myself flying during sleep hours until now when I realized that floating was similar to being able to fly. 

We floated to an area that was illuminated by beautiful flowers of every color. These colors were unlike any colors of flowers I had ever seen before. Beautiful does not describe their essence, aroma, or emotions emitting from each one to me. I saw a little creek of gently flowing water with a little bridge crossing over it. This is what gave me the idea she was an angel, my Guardian Angel, because the little bridge reminded me of the picture of the Guardian Angel crossing the little child over a broken bridge which hovered high above some rough waters during a very stormy night. Everyone Catholic in my age range surely remembers seeing this little holy card of the Guardian Angel.

We floated across the bridge and stopped. That's when I noticed far in the distance another Light. This one was much brighter, stronger, and moving toward us. The interesting thing about this Light is that regardless of how close it was to my face it was never too bright to hurt my eyes. In later years recalling the details of my incident I realized there were no shadows in that space, nothing dark anywhere either. 

The Light grew and grew as it came closer to me bringing with it a Love greater than any I had ever felt on earth. My mom was rather abusive and seemed to not like me, so I never felt much love from her. My father seemed to love me and the nuns at school loved me. My teachers loved me. They all demonstrated love and care for me regularly. But none was as great as this LOVE from the LIGHT. When the Light stopped moving it was directly in front of me only a few away. The angel then nudged me from behind, but remember she never touched me. It only felt like she nudged me forward. I looked up at her and mentally asked her to go with me. She informed me that she must not. So I stepped forward, I remember for some seconds after I said Hello there was an image that appeared. It was only flash.

To describe the image now I can say it lasted only seconds, was that of a man I thought to be Jesus although he looked different from the Jesus I knew because he was all grown up. Daily in my sleep, I had visions of playing with a small boy my age who called himself Jesus. We were in a faraway place I'd never seen in my life. This image coming from the light was of a grown man but I felt him as Jesus. His hands were outstretched and the voice emanating from this light said to me, 'Come closer little one.' I began crying as I was filled with a super strong sense of being loved, as I said, unlike any love I had ever in my life felt before that moment. The image only lasted seconds but I continued to feel safe in the presence of the Light. I recall crying so hard and begging HIM to take me home. I so wanted to go HOME with HIM, not back to my earthly home. Thinking about it later in life, I have no clue where I got the idea of there being another home other than the earthly one. Somehow, I just knew that HOME was there with HIM. I begged to go home, crying and pleading for some moments. I felt HIS arms wrap around me as HE shooshed me, calmed me, and told me I could not go with Him at that time because He had a big job for me to do for him IF I wanted to help Him with something very important.

I excitedly agreed to help with this big job. That's when He told me, I had to go back and to always remember HE IS WITH ME. My job was explained as such: I was told that I must LOVE and FORGIVE everyone who would do bad things to hurt me. I agreed I would do it but apparently, the job was going to be more difficult than I as a little child could imagine. He said again, 'You must love as I love. Can you do this? You must love everyone no matter what they do. And they will do many bad things to hurt you but you must remember to forgive them and love them. It is a very big job. Are you sure you want to do it?'

Eagerly I agreed, but adding to my response a big question, 'And will you take me home after that? After I do the job for you will you come and get me so I can be with you?' I was crying the entire time I was in the PRESENCE. It was all so much for me to absorb. All I could think about was going to be with HIM where I would be truly loved and cared for all the time. The Light confirmed that I would be brought back home when my time comes but for now, I must go back and love everyone. He reminded me there would be many people that I trusted and loved who would do horrible things to cause me great pain but I could not hate them or do anything to hurt them I could only love and forgive. The message was expressed over and over in my brain, 'Love and forgive.' 'Love as He loves.'

I knew I would never forget this day, this moment, this PRESENCE, this LIGHT, the angel, the flowers. All of it was engrained in my memory forever and I could not wait to tell everyone I had seen an angel and GOD. Unfortunately, the little bit I did hint to such as hearing the doctor speaking in the operating room was denied. My mom told me I was making up stories just for attention. That was her favorite line for me whenever I talked of things she didn't believe in or ever experience. So I kept it all to myself until the day I could tell my favorite nun at school. Her response was one of encouragement and joy. She told me that I must be very special in God's eyes for HIM to have me come to him with an angel. She also said that HE knew I would be able to do the job and that would be my task for life. She said it was a very special and important job and GOD loved me very much and already knew I would say yes to his request.

I recall HE called me little one more than once. I cried a lot. He hugged me so tightly even though I saw no arms or physical body. I felt the hugs, the warmth, and the love emanating from that brilliant Light. He assured me He would come for me when it was my turn to go Home.  But for now, I must go back and do this big work for Him. He even knew no one would believe me but I must not be concerned for that, just love them anyway.

This is my first experience and the one most impressionable for me, probably because I was an eight year old little girl who lived with an abusive mother that gave me distinct impressions of being unloved and unwanted by her which went against everything I was being taught in Catholic school. They teach that our parents love us no matter what. Not in my house! Being brought before God's Light to hear and feel how much He loved me gave me what I needed to make it through the coming years of continued mental, physical and spiritual abuse. I am forever thankful for my near-death experience. Before the LIGHT floated backwards, I guess heading back from where it came, I recall moving forward and hugging it. It felt like I was hugging somebody although there was only Light. It hugged me back. That was the best hug I'd ever felt and will ever feel. 

Then He sort of nudged me lifting up my chin as if to look at HIM and told me to go on back and always remember what I had promised to do for HIM. Then HE began floating backward and becoming smaller and smaller until there was only a tiny dot of light to be seen. The angel and I turned and floated back across the bridge. At some point, she stopped and told me to go on alone. She assured me I would be perfectly fine. That is where my memory stops. Eventually I was back in the hospital but already in a private room. I was alone but could hear people moving around out in the halls.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  approximately 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other 'I was rushed to the Southern Baptist Hospital for an emergency appendectomy. According to what I overheard the doctor telling my mother, my appendix had burst but he claimed to have lifted them out of my body fast enough to prevent the poison from spilli  I would like to express that looking back to my emergency appendectomy from the moment I was being taken to the hospital up to the moments following the surgery I believe that my life was in danger. I do not believe the physician/surgeon spoke the truth to my mom when he said that I had not been in any danger. I do not believe he spoke the truth when he told her he had the appendix in his hands and was able to pull the organ away from my body BEFORE spilling poison into the open cavity. I have great reason to believe he was lying and experiences that followed which lead me to believe I was out of my body because I was either dying or in danger of dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I do not fully understand this question. I was completely conscious when I felt myself floating above my body and out of the ceiling into a lighted area. When I saw the angel, I knew I was wide-awake. (Obviously not physically awake since I was heavily sedated and my body lay perfectly still on a cold operating table awaiting the surgeon.) I felt conscious throughout my experience from moments after they forced the gas mask onto my face until the angel brought me back to the hospital. There was some time of unconsciousness when she left me. Then what seemed like a very long passed before I was awake. But I can tell you when I awakened I felt no pain, actually like no surgery had ever happened. The doctor was surprised to see me sitting up and coloring in a book when he arrived.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were brighter, cleaner, brightly illuminated but with no shadows. I did notice things were transparent but at age eight, I would say they were see-through. This is common for me though. I say this because around the same age I noticed that I could see dead people and would always see right through them! Of course, no one believed me when I told them there were ghosts walking around in our house. So I kept it to myself and lived afraid of being alone in the dark.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voices of both the angel and the Light/God were soft, gentle voices. They were familiar voices I had heard numerous times before that day. I recognized both voices. I guess that's why I felt so safe with them. I was completely unafraid.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was only darkness for moments as I recall it. I was so excited over floating that I did not initially feel fear of the darkness and it was not ever completely dark. I passed through the ceiling of the hospital and assumed it was already night outside, then as I said, before I could finish my thoughts about where I was going the angel appeared. Then everything was illuminated with her appearance. For minutes I only noticed her and paid no attention to anything around me until suddenly smelling and seeing the field of flowers.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Please refer back to the previous questions wherein I speak of the angel who guided me to the Other Side and set me before GOD.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The angel brought light, meaning her presence illuminated the area. She was glowing and extremely beautiful. The greater LIGHT came moments later when there appeared as a flash the figure of a man I felt was Jesus but all grown up. Then the LIGHT at its brightest brought extreme love and security. I felt certain this was GOD.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     see above explanations of my experience and journey to the Other Side.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was eight! It was exciting for me to realize I was floating even though I had no idea where I was going. Before I could finish my thought of wondering where I was going the angel appeared. So technically I had only seconds, I'm guessing, alone before she arrived to take me to the Other Side.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Referring to question number twenty the only deceased or religious figure I saw was what I refer to as the image of Jesus which only lasted seconds.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     As I grew and matured I realized many things/gifts I was given. I had visions and still have visions while I sleep. I see things before they happen. Sometimes I feel the symptoms of people coming for healing weeks before they ever arrive at my door. I can feel areas of pain in the bodies of others, not always but often. I hear the voices of the spirit world and they teach me many things, which I later find reason for an opportunity to utilize what I had been taught. And much more. All of these gifts made themselves known in weeks, months, and years following my NDE.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary was there standing in front of the Light. I could not and did not want to go past it, only to go with It. I felt safe and loved. I was a little child standing before SOMEONE or SOMETHING who I knew loved me very much. I wanted to return with the Light to what I knew to be HOME. But I was told that I must go back and do the big job for God.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was baptized Catholic at birth and raised in Catholicism attending Catholic schools from kindergarten through fifth grade. I was only 7 or 8 years old at the time of my first OBE and NDE. (CATHOLIC)

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     See question forty-two above.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Having been taught 'once a Catholic, always a Catholic' I guess I would be labeled Catholic. Occasionally I do attend Catholic masses but more often, I go to the churches when they are empty for meditation and to check in with my Creator. When I feel led to attend a mass, I will do so. In between those times, I practice a more non-denominational spiritual faith in GOD and Love for all living things. (CATHOLIC)'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     See question forty-two above.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only of what was my big job to do on this earth For GOD. Also that He would come for me when it is my time to go Home.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As a child, my life was normal as could be. I went through puberty like other kids, I had a very rough life, punished all the time; isolated more often than not. I was very angry for some years as a young teen. My mom nearly locked me away in a mental institution although I cannot remember the details of what brought on that behavior of her calling a police station to come for me and take me to the hospital. I was maybe eleven when that occurred. As I grew older, approximately twenty-four years old, life began to change for the better. Bumpy roads were traveled but eventually it all leveled out.   I raised three fantastic kids on my own and am now married to a man who is also a healer blessed by GOD with certain spiritual gifts. We live as healers, never searching for needy people. They are led to us. There is no advertising and no fees. We work to serve others on behalf of GOD. We speak of God's love and power to heal, of faith, and prayer. Then IF we are spiritually guided to heal, we do so. If not, then we direct the person to the nearest priest or doctor or hospital depending on circumstances which differ for everyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I answer Uncertain, not because it was difficult to express but because I was eight years old at that time. Who would believe me? And yes, in many ways it is difficult to describe in words what is felt when one is taken to stand before GOD. The colors, light, voice and every other detail of my experience was greater in beauty and emotion than the average individual could possibly imagine. Yes, it is difficult to depict in words what was sensed, felt, expressed to me and by me to GOD. The entire experience was overwhelmingly emotional and difficult to contain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See number thirty-four. Some were available to me prior to the experience such as seeing ghosts or spirits but I was told I was crazy so I pushed it out of my head as much as possible and lived in fear of being alone in the dark. In fact, I was so afraid of the dark that I often wet my bed because I could not get up and go alone to the bathroom. In addition, I walked in my sleep a lot. Another story entirely has something to do with visions of past lives.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it! GOD hugging me, calling me Little One, and showing so much love for me is extra meaningful along with being entrusted with such a huge task to perform on HIS behalf.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    See previous responses wherein I explain telling nuns at school.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was the greatest thing that had ever happened to me. This experience made me feel so special and when the nuns at school told me that GOD was seeing me as someone special and I should know that HE is always with me, I felt like I had been given the biggest blessing anyone could ever receive! Remember I was a little kid. It was awesome from start to finish! To this day I feel overwhelmed with emotion whenever I relate the details to anyone.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above response.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Medication is not responsible for producing the first experience taking place when I was eight years old. Nor has medicine had part in any of the experiences occurring in later years. I do not used medications of any type ever. I live my life healthily, using only herbal or homeopathic formulas when extremely necessary. I use chiropractic help or acupuncture if needed. I never have incidents requiring western medical professionals and thus do not have health insurance or any need for such. God takes care of me always. I am convinced of this.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is nothing I care to say in any effort to convince anyone that what I experienced is or was real. I know it was. I was there. I felt the Love. I saw the Light and the angel. I heard the voice. It was real, believe it or not, the choice is yours.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that I can think of in this moment. Oh but, Dr Long, I am guessing you are a resident of NOLA because in your youtube.com interview the background appeared to be that of Oschner Hospital. Am I correct? Also, you seemed very familiar to me although I am certain I do not know you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_b_probable_nde.html