{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise L NDE 8205","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise L NDE 8205  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4289 Denise L NDE 8205  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 14 years old. My parents allowed me to go on vacation with my girlfriend and her family.  In the summer of 1973, we went camping near the beach. I was a rarity in Southern California in that I didn't know know how to swim, but I loved the water.  I went dog-paddling out into the mostly-calm water. There is a little breakwater and a bay, as I recall. Out of nowhere, a very large wave came and pulled me under.  

  				    I remember not being able to breathe and for a split second I was terrified. Then I felt peace  that was not particularly pleasant nor unpleasant emotion.  I rose above my body and watched it tumble around in the water.  I wasn't afraid or  struggling because I wasn't in my body at all. 

   				    Then all of a sudden I was back in my body. I was  gasping,  spluttering, and trying to cough up the water that was trying to get into my lungs.  I never lost consciousness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Drowning.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I couldn't swim, but I was engulfed by a huge wave and couldn't breathe.  I suppose I started to drown.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain.  I saw only myself tumbling through the water. I saw kelp and the sandy sea floor beneath me and the shining of the sun down through the water.  I'm not sure I understand the question!  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   An unusual thing was happening, and so I was more present, if you will.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Entirely awake and alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.      Time went slower.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Utterly clear. I could see perfectly under the water, with no stinging in my eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror at first and then a sense of peace. I had a sense of what will be, will be. I also had curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events.     I think this began to happen, and then I was back in my body.  It is so long ago, but I have the sense that this did happen or begin to happen.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   I had a Catholic background but no real instruction in my faith.  I was really an adolescent seeker at that time.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain.      I searched harder for God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic.   Strong faith, traditionally-minded Catholic, pray every day, attend Mass as often as I can.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was 14 years old and had never really considered or maybe even heard of out of body experience or NDEs.  I really didn't know what to make of my experience.  Now, I think maybe it was an OBE or simply a disassociative experience.  I have never experienced anything like it since.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain.     I think I sought God more rigorously.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I sought God more rigorously after the experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain. I think the experience helped me to realize at a young age how precarious our lives are.  
  
After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain.   It is a very strange experience.  I never told anyone at the time because I couldn't really understand what happened to me.  I just kind of filed it away.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I don't think I ever have, but I can't really recall.  It is not something that comes up in regular conversation.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain.   Don't remember.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It was my experience.  Whether or not is was my soul out of my body or dissociation, I do not know.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_l_nde.html