{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise M NDE 2959","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise M NDE 2959  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1045  Denise M NDE  2959  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				  Seven years ago I was ten years old. I went into a diabetic coma. My parents rushed me to the hospital where they told them I had also had a stroke on the left side of my brain, destroying most of it. They said that I would die within the next twenty-four hours. All of my organs were shutting down.

I didn't die. When I went into the coma at my home, Jesus appeared at the side of my bed and asked me to go with him. I did. He took me to the spirit world or what you call heaven and showed me many things. I have to see all of His life. He showed me hell, where the evil people have gone.

Jesus took me to see my grandpa, sister, aunt and many others while there. I met many other people too. I was taken to a field where I skipped stones on the lake with Jesus. We also swam in the water and had a water fight. We swam with dolphins. Later Jesus let me fly with an eagle. It was fun.

At the end, I was told that I must return. I told him no, that I wanted to stay with him. Then God came and talked to me about it. I couldn't tell him no, so I said I would go back. I hugged him and Jesus.

Jesus took me to my body and told me to lie down on it and I'd be back in. He said I would be in a lot of pain. I lay down and I woke up from my coma. I saw my dad looking at me. I told him I was hungry. The nurse asked if I had actually spoke. My dad told her that I had.

I had been in the coma for three days. I spent those three days with Jesus. I can even begin to tell you the things I saw and experienced while there. I am glad I came back but will be glad to go once again to live with Jesus and God.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'November 5, 1999'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness    Direct head injury  'Went into a diabetic coma, had a stroke that affected the left brain.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Diabetic coma and then a stroke. My parents were told that it was medically impossible for me to live.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During all of it.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During all of it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no time there. You could travel through space at the speed of thought.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see better there. I could see through buildings and people. The colors are brighter.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    You could hear everything everyone said clearly since they spoke with their minds and not their mouths. I could hear flowers sing, the angels sing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus, God, my grandfather, my Sunday School teacher, my aunt, my sister and many, many others. I knew most of them. Many things were communicated. I was told at the end that I needed to return, but that it was my choice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw the Celestial City.  I was taken to a field at the end of my NDE with waterfalls, flowers, birds and many other animals.  Many people came there to see me.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, love, peace. I wanted to stay there and not come back.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        Some personal things that I'd rather not talk about.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   No comment.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything, we don't have the vocabulary to express what is over there.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see auras and spirits. Also other things I'd rather not talk about.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my father one month later. He believed me. It changed his life and my family's life.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I went into a low blood coma and had another NDE.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_m_nde.html