{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1delia_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Delia S NDE 3194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Delia S NDE 3194  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Delia S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1225 Delia S NDE 3194  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On 12/27/82 I was seeing by a lung specialist. He determined that the bleeding was coming from my right lung and that it would be necessary to do a biopsy! (A very simple procedure.) However, I was too weak and very, very anemic and by this time, I had lost too much blood. He determined that he could not waste more time and that the procedure had to be done immediately. Right after the procedure was completed, I went into some type of 'mild' cardiac arrest! This is where I went to the most wonderful place that up until now I get teary eyes because I did not want to come back! I went through a tunnel that had these wonderful chimes. The tunnel was/or felt like pink cotton candy. It was very, very peaceful. At the end of the tunnel, there was a very bright white/blue light. I felt the presence of a wonderful being that told that I could not stay because I had to take care of children, my mom, and many others that would need my assistance. (At that time, my children were small nine and thirteen.) When the doctors finally brought me back, I was crying and sobbing and felt very, very sad because I had left my real and true home. On December 27, 2007, it will be twenty-five years ago that I had this wonderful experience, and to date I remember it as if it had just occurred!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'December 27, 1982'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .  I had been coughing up blood for a period of four days. I went to the emergency room every day and finally, on 12/24/82, I made the decision to stay at the emergency room lobby because I was too weak and exhausted! On 12/25/82, at 2:00 am, a kind doctor took me in and determined that I was internally bleeding and was admitted to the hospital for a period of eighteen days!


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was semi-conscious and when the doctors were trying to bring me back. This is the part that I remember the most. (The sadness feeling was tremendous.)

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Specifically, when I was going through the tunnel and at the end of the tunnel. The colors were so vividly bright!

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The chimes had this wonderful sound that to date, I have not been able to identify with other pitch sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel was very bright. It looked like pale pink cotton.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   At the end of the tunnel there was a white/pale blue light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A very well manicured lawn, trees, flowers, etc. And of course, the chimes!

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt very relaxed. I felt that I did not have a thing to worry about. I did not remember that I was leaving the children or my mom behind. Just very, very peaceful. Nothing else was important!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   A devoted catholic.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I believe that there is/are 'Supreme Being/Beings' that watch over us day and night. And that they are there to greet us when we are ready to come home.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   'Being a Hispanic, my background is and has been a moderate catholic. However, I am no longer a devoted catholic!!!! {Very disappointed with the catholic priesthood ''child molestation'' abuse cases}!!!!'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe that there is/are 'Supreme Being/Beings' that watch over us day and night. And that they are there to greet us when we are ready to come home.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I must follow my mission. That is, to assist and care for other persons with their needs. (After twenty-four-plus years, I find myself doing it.)

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   For the longest time, I could not relate the experience to no one because I did not want people to think that I was 'mental'. (Being in a management high ranking position, made it difficult to discuss with my peers.)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can sense when someone close to me is sick or about to get sick. The majority of the time, I can pick up the phone and dial a number because I know that the person is thinking of me or in need of some type of help. (This happens frequently.)

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       When I was told that I had to come home and take care of my children and my mother. That if we believe in hell, that the only hell is here on earth!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It took ten years! The first time, I discussed it was with my personal secretary. It was very ironic; her mother had had a near death experience too! To date, I do not discuss it with too many people. It's not important. I know what I saw. I know what I felt. I am at peace with myself and with others and that it is what is important!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It took months and months to come into terms as to what happened to me. It could've been because I was in denial and did not want to discuss with no one on this earth. Up until now, to me the experience was and it's still is very real. It's very personal and sacred. I will treasure it until I die!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Number one reason: After twenty-four-plus years, I still remember the experience as if it happened last night. Occasionally, I can still hear the chimes in my sleep.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None at this time. (I am sure that some of the persons that have experienced a near death experience may feel reluctant to discuss it because they may feel that it is a very, very personal and sacred experience, just like to I do.)

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1delia_s_nde.html