{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Denise B NDE 831","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise B NDE 831  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Denise B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						331  Denise B NDE  831  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I traveled through space at great speed, once I had lost the fear of going with it. I saw a light and I went into it. It was wondrous light that engulfed everything; there was total knowledge and love. I saw my life from my addiction point of view flash before my eyes, repeated behaviors etc. I went back and saw myself in the womb.


I was then told to 'remember' I was then flicked through future decisions and happenings. I was then given a chance to view the universe's and given the opportunity to be one with it and have the knowledge of the truth. This went into stuff like time is simultaneous, everything happens at the same time, there is no then and future. The universe is not just one but infinite, wondrous and continuing to evolve. We are just one dimension; there are many planes if you like. Just as if ants are not aware of us, we are not aware of higher, evolved states of being. The greatest part was the full feeling and knowledge that in the end all there is, is love. We become one with everything and everything becomes one with us. We are here to experience this life to the fullest and must be in the NOW to do that; get rid of distractions, being addictions, destructive behaviors etc. We are here to be our best selves, which includes being what we can for others.


I no longer fear, in comparison I look forward to death. I did not want to come back, however I had two young children that I could not leave with my husband and I would have killed my unborn child.


I have never written this down before, I suppose I should, I hope that this gives you an idea.


This all happened during childbirth. I was sucking on the gas continuously overnight unsupervised, with the laughing stuff turned up to maximum. I had some visions at this time, but the last time I did it I went out -- the nurse looked at me with fear and asked me if I was alright, I knew I had to answer correctly -- the answer was no!!!!  They lost my baby's heartbeat during the last two of these episodes; the last one was when I had my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    10 July 2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     Childbirth  Life threatening event, but not clinical death During childbirth

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was not here; I left and went to some other place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was like being awake, it felt very real.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no time. Time does not matter. Infinity is truly wondrous and truly infinite, hard to comprehend with our limited minds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I sped through a black void, but when I looked there were small lights around me, I took them for stars.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The light was the being, communication was a knowing, like talking with minds, and there was no words. I knew, they knew. I felt one with it yet separate.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Yes and when I went into it it was all encompassing. Warm, just total love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The dimension of the afterlife.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I became one with the universe and had total knowledge for a time of everything. I remember thinking, 'That's it!!'  It all fitted together and was so obvious. Time, space, meaning of life, afterlife, etc.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Sort of. I saw addictive behaviors and repetitive lessons quickly and therefore they became obvious. I now have a firm understanding of learning. I was given insight to total serenity.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Quick flashes of decisions I would have to make. Have since had remembrance of one, cannot remember them specifically now, but I am sure I will again when the situation arises.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   In the form of my parents, it was communicated that 'When will you learn the lesson. Don't take your baby with you.' Stop!!!!!

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Did not believe in afterlife or God

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now believe in God (for lack of better word), afterlife etc. Believe that religion has got it just about right. Separation is a man thing. We are one with it all, just a piece in the puzzle.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   To put such wondrous things into words. The knowledge about time and space and infinity, it is all quite hard to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Just greater insight, knowledge. Feel quite different if I truly stay in the moment. Was communicated how important it is to stay in the moment and not distracted by thoughts of other things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I do not think that I can communicate it very well yet. People are skeptics I think. Did touch a couple of people when talked about death and not to fear it etc.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_b_nde.html