{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1denise_b_nde_9738.html","mytitle":"Denise B NDE 9738","mylang":"de"}
          	        Denise B NDE 9738  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			        			          			          Denise B NDE 9738  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            5260 Denise B NDE 9738  		                		              		            			      			    			  	    			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I went into cardiac arrest.  Then, I was sitting on the floor waving to emergency medical technicians (EMTs) who were peering in the bottom sidelight window of my door. I thought they could see me waving at them to come in, because I did not yet realize that my body was prone on the floor.  They could not see me waving. Next thing I recall is an EMT yelling in my face trying to get me to say name. My personality was intact as I have a Don Rickles type humor and I was replying to EMT, 'No. I know you know my name because I heard my son just tell that police officer my name.' My son was now there with police and I heard the stress in my son's voice. The EMT then started repeating my name right in my face, which again, annoyed me to no end. So I said, 'I am just going to ignore you, because you know my name, stop saying my name and then asking me.' I kept trying to tell him that I was fine, and felt great.  I wanted them to help my son because I could hear the stress in his voice. 

  My next door neighbor, who is also my friend from high school, came in and I saw her. When the EMT asked her who she was, she answered, 'Her sister.' I laughed and thought, 'You lied.' Then I heard the officer in the kitchen ask my son who she was and my son stated, 'My mom's best friend.' So the officer told her, 'You! OUT!' I laughed again and said to her, 'Ha ha ha! BUSTED!' I still was completely unaware that I was dead and that no one could hear me. I continued to tell the EMTs to leave me alone and help my son, but they did not listen to me. They had to lift my body and carry me out past my car as they could not get the stretcher past it and up to the house. They carried me outside. 

  I immediately shot up and 'sat' on the edge of my roof. I saw my friend and her husband on one side of the drive way, and my other neighbors on the other side of my driveway and thought, 'Oh wow. This is going to be really hard to explain in the morning.' Then it dawned on me that I was actually outside of my body. I was so intrigued. 

  I followed my body into the ambulance and the one neighbor was looking in the back window of ambulance, while the 3 EMTs worked on me. One EMT opened the back door and told him to please step away from the window. The EMT to the front of my body said, 'I have no heartbeat.' The EMT behind my head said, 'I have a BP of 48 over 24'. Then he said, 'I have no BP.' The EMT to the front said, 'We need a shot of Atropine'. I looked out the back of the ambulance, even though the doors were shut. I could see them shut, but I could also see past them and down my street. It was an odd duality. I looked down my street into the sky at the end and I fully realized that I had access to ALL the information in the universe. All I had to do was ask a question and the answer was right there. Yet, I was so amazed that I never thought to ask any questions. The next thing I knew I shot to a sitting position as the atropine 'pushed' my heart. I wanted the EMTs to know that I had seen and heard it all, but I was going unconscious quickly again.  So I hurried to shared verbatim to them what they had said since they arrived. The 3rd EMTs eyes got wide and he asked me, 'You HEARD all that??' I nodded and I was out again. 

  I came to consciousness at the hospital and was still with the EMTs.  They figured out quickly it was an electrolyte issue with my heart. (They were still unaware of perforation) They added what they needed to sustain the heart into IV and I was stabilized. 

  The next day, they went through with surgery for bowel. The surgeon removed part of sigmoid colon and when he attempted to pull descending colon down to reconnect, it would not budge. They had to do a larger incision to see what was happening and they found the abscess around the perforation with adhesions attaching the intestine to the bottom rib. So they had to remove the entire descending half of the transverse colon to remove the perforation and cut the adhesions.  Then they reconnected what was left. I went to recovery and then back to my room. Within hours, they had nurses get me up and walking and all looked ok. 

  Then I fell asleep for the night and the next thing I knew, a nurse was next to my bed and mumbling curses under her breath. My monitor was going off and she then called my surgeon on her cell. I tried to tell her to calm down as I was not in pain and that this had happened the night before as well.  I tried to tell her I was going to be fine and not to stress out so badly. I heard my doctor to tell her, 'Give her a bolus.' (I had never heard of Atropine or a bolus before, so I learned new terminology in both experiences). She told him she had already tried a bolus. I kept trying to tell her, 'I need potassium and magnesium' because that is what they gave me the first time around when I first got there via ambulance. Then the doctor said, 'Give her potassium and another bolus' and I said, 'See? There you go.' She was still so upset and then I saw my monitors and the colors! The green was the greenest most beautiful version of green I had ever seen. The colors were nothing like I had ever seen so I propped up on my invisible legs, kneeling, to stare at the heart monitor. 

Then, bam! I was back in my body. I grabbed her hand and asked, 'What is a bolus?' She absolutely lost it. She left my room and asked for a different nurse to help me for remainder of my stay. I was able to confirm afterwards with EMTs (because I brought them sandwiches and a salad one day to thank them for saving me) as to what they said during resuscitation and I was correct on all counts. That 3rd EMT was again pretty amazed that I had such detail to what they were discussing and doing. I also learned the word Atropine from them. I confirmed with my friend that she was thrown out by the cop and that they were on the opposite side of driveway from my other neighbors. I also confirmed with the other neighbor that the EMT yelled at him to get away from window. I discussed this with my surgeon but he downplayed my story.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12-1-2015 to 12-2-2015  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was doing the prep for a bowel resection surgery due to a diverticulitis infection that would not clear up. They were unaware that I actually had an abscess with a perforation in transverse colon. They asked me to take Dulcolax and drink a cleansing fluid. Day and half prior to scheduled surgery, I followed instruction and took the dulcolax, however a rare side effect of that is it can deplete potassium and magnesium, which it did to me, so there was no 'electricity' in my heart, so it stopped. Based on the pain, I knew I was in trouble. I called my son and simply said, 'Call an ambulance'. I then stood up and put dog in garage, went to unlock door for when ambulance got there, and that is when I apparently started to die. I collapsed and fell into door hinges, which gashed my eye and forehead. That is when things got real.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Most of the experience. As stated in earlier question, I verified with everyone I saw and watched to confirm what they had said and done.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had the entire universe of knowledge right there for the asking. I just never thought to ask, but I knew that all the knowledge of all things was right there. However, time was weird. Very weird.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time the EMTs were working on me, I was very, very highly conscious and alert.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was weird. Events seemed linear but also overlapping. Space was different as well.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The duality of my vision. To see what was right there, but to see past that and afar at the same time. Colors. Colors were amazing.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no barrier to hearing whatever I chose to focus on. I heard my doctor speaking to nurse on phone but it was as if he was standing in the room speaking with her.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, contentment, excitement, humor, annoyance. AWE.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I came back with a feeling that 'Eternity' does not describe it, because eternity implies a linear timeline, which there was nothing like that. It is infinity. All encompassing in every direction. Time and space seemingly irrelevant. We are all pieces of what some people call God. We are like flecks of energy and all combined together we all make up this giant, all knowing, blob of knowledge it felt like.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I was raised Catholic, but I did not personally believe in God as depicted in any religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I may not be religious or believe in God, but I know for sure there is something after this.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was absolutely terrified of death and having no faith as I am agnostic. I now am still agnostic, but fully aware that death is not at all the end.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More peaceful because the fear is gone.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     certain medical terms I learned while listen to both resuscitations.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are flecks of that. Put all of us together and we make up what some refer to as God.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     We are flecks of that. Put all of us together and we make up what some refer to as God.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     If I stayed longer, I understood that I would probably become a small part of a much larger whole.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I am not certain, but I came back with an undeniable feeling that yes we are here for a reason. In my case, it is almost as if I was 'sentenced' to be here but I have no idea why. I must remain for a specific time. Suicide is cheating, almost like a jail break, and you have to come back and do it all over if you cheat your way out.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I have a compelling need to help others that lose someone, especially children. I tell them all, 'Say their name. Out Loud. Just say their name.' I share my story with whomever will listen. Many try to explain it away, but I am here to tell them only. Not to force them to believe.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was a sense of duality that you do not experience in body. Seeing through doors but also seeing the doors at same time. How do you explain that to people. Words are insufficient to express the magnitude of it.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It is the single, most amazing event of my life. You do not forget that. When you think on it and allow the human brain to comprehend it all afterwards, it is mind blowing.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    as soon as I was revived in ambulance, I told the EMTs. Then as soon as I saw my surgeon in hospital after both experiences. After that, every time I could tell someone, I have.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read a lot of books and my favorite topic was all supernatural things. So I read a lot about this and other things.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That was more real than my everyday life. Plus, having verified with so many people, with such accuracy, there is no denying it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     That was more real than my everyday life. Plus, having verified with so many people, with such accuracy, there is no denying it was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1denise_b_nde_9738.html