{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1demirkaya_nde.html","mytitle":"Demirkaya NDE 9672","mylang":"de"}
          	        Demirkaya NDE 9672  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Demirkaya NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5204 Demirkaya NDE 9672  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was 13 years old. I was following my mom to a cafe in some kind of garden.  She was walking in front of me.  The cafe had a large, moon-shaped stairs going into the eating area.  I was hopping down the stairs when my foot slipped.  I fell down on my chin. 

  I opened my eyes to see bright, white light everywhere. I thought it might be snow. But my eyes would hurt if it was. Then I realized that the grass, trees, and soil were part of the bright white light. I looked up and saw bright, white light men.  There were in a row with three of them on the right and three of them on the left. They looked like statues in the shape of a human.  But, they didn't have real eyes. The statues looked exactly the same and were dressed the same.  

  There was a wall with a big, bright white door in front of me. I moved my head down and up again.  The colors started to come back. I saw men running through the door. The last man turned around to look at me and then he left too. 

   Then I saw my mom still walking, she didn't realized what happened to me.  She didn't even take a step, but for me, I was gone out of my body for at least 5 minutes. I asked her before she panics, 'Mom, where are the men?' She asked, 'Which men? There was no one here.' 

  This was the best experience ever as I felt peace and true Happiness. 

That night I experienced my first precognitive dream. I saw a girl I knew who dies.  My dad tells me later that that girl had died.  I had those type of dreams for my entire life after that event. I see when people I know are dying or having a bad experience before they get ill or get in an accident.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain       Direct head injury    Other I fell down on my chin  I fell down on my chin,i don't think there was anything life threatening but I'm not sure.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The garden was the same, every plant was the same except they become pure white light. Their shape was the same.  No

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   My thoughts was clear and fast and only thing I could hear was my thoughts so that make it easier. I was at extreme peace but I was fully aware of anything.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware the entire time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     It felt like I was there for a long time but my mom didn't even took a step forward. It must be a blink of an eye for her.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     If it was 7 before, during the experience it went up to 10  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no outer sounds, it wasn't like I can't hear them but there was no sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I saw light men but I'm not sure if they were deceased people or alive in another dimension.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was pure white light. Even the men I saw.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in the same place but the reality was changed to a bright light world.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt intense peace and Happiness. I was curious but calmly. There was thoughts in my head at first, but they gone after I saw those men.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Not at that time but messenger dreams occurred after the experience from the first day to this day. I can tell if someone is going to die when I saw them in my dreams. Not everyone, I actually don't know how is this happening.  
  
Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim     

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I guess I start to believe in God actively for saying there is afterlife. But when I think about it know it isn't indicates any religion or God It just might be a dimension.  
  
  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths -  Deism  
  
Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was 13 and didn't have much idea about afterlife at all.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There was 6 identical men looking like pure white statues with silhouette.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was aware.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was aware of life after death.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life’s difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt peace and love. I was saying myself it's (the experience) beautiful.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     My dreams start to come true. I still have those dreams. Also I saw other beings for some time until I fear them and I guess I block them after that. I was waking up to sounds in the night and saw other people talking in my room when I was 13-15. I'm glad they're gone but I'm not schizophrenic.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't feel any pain, anxiety, struggle nothing at all. It was pure peace and Happiness like out of this world.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I do remember it vividly but it's been 20 years and o wonder if I'm missing something.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My dreams start to become true and I saw other beings for some time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No. I was just a child, that experience build me to who I am today.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom immediately. Most people thought I had hallucinations and I lied to them. I checked my brain and I was fine according to MRI. But then I get used to it since I had real dreams. 
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was just a child, I don't remember what I believed but I must be influenced by religious ones around me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubt the realness of the experience. It was as real as this moment.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real. Nobody is capable of making something like that up. Because it was unearthy.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My dreams and paranormal encounters if I understand the question correctly.  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, you get it. Thank you for doing this.          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1demirkaya_nde.html