{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1della_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Della M NDE 2966","mylang":"de"}
          	        Della M NDE 2966  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Della M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1050  Della M NDE  2966  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  They had just moved me into my room after having had surgery. The nurse was checking my vital signs when she could no longer get a pulse. My soul left my body. I (my soul) was up against the ceiling in the south east corner of the room. I could see the body on the bed. The nurse keep pumping up the blood pressure cuff as another nurse went after the crash cart and help. There were by now three doctors and five nurses in my room. I though the nurse with the blood pressure cuff was funny. She would pump it up, listen, pump it up again, listen, and pump it up again. I saw one doctor and one nurse fill a syringe with a very long needle that they were going to inject into my heart. I knew I was dead. I had no fear, I felt very much at peace. I was more than willing to go on. BUT at the very last second, I thought what would happen to my four young children in my absence. It was like SLAM I was back in my body and I heard the nurse say I have a pulse. I have told others it was like the hand of God slammed me back into my body much like you would slam a handful of mud against a wall. I started laughing which no one understood. Since that day, I have had no fear of death. I am far more easygoing and at peace.

When I went in to the doctor's office six weeks after my release the doctor said I have to know why you were laughing as he told me he was 'scared shitless as I was clinically dead'. I told him, 'From where I was it was like watching a cartoon of the Key Stone Cops.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1964  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related Allergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had surgery and I died from a reaction to the medications.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I saw the doctor and nurse fill the syringe I knew I was dead and the body on the bed was mine.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the doctor and nurse fill the syringe I knew I was dead and the body on the bed was mine.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear all that was being said but in real life I wear hearing aids as I very hard of hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, warmth, love, comfort.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I saw the faces of my children and them playing in a field of flowers.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My parents were not spiritual people and never took my brother or me to church.  I never told my mom or dad about my experience, as I knew they would try to make feel ashamed and dumb and tell me I was never to tell anyone. I did tell my brother and it makes me sad because he doesn't believe. He thinks all there is to life is this present's here and now.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My parents were not spiritual people and never took my brother or me to church.  I never told my mom or dad about my experience, as I knew they would try to make feel ashamed and dumb and tell me I was never to tell anyone. I did tell my brother and it makes me sad because he doesn't believe. He thinks all there is to life is this present's here and now.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I had some psychic, paranormal events in my life prior to this event.  My grand-mother was very clairvoyant. When my uncle passed in Wyoming, his soul came to Tennessee to tell me goodbye, that we had been together in previous lives and we would be together in the future. (This happened two hours before my mother called and told me her brother had passed.) I have known most of my life that there is more than just this life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was six weeks when I told my doctor. He was not surprised he said he had at least five or six other patients that had shared a similar experience with him.  I have shared with many over the years. Some people just roll their eyes others seem to receive a great peace by it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew (felt) I had crossed through the veil and never for one moment thought any different. It wasn't disturbing to me. It just felt like the normal thing to do.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just have an inner knowing that this is a very small part of our life journey.  This presence here now is just a split second in the whole of life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just wish all people could feel the inner peace.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1della_m_nde.html