{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deeray_g_nde.html","mytitle":"DeeRay G NDE 4428","mylang":"de"}
          	        DeeRay G NDE 4428  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					DeeRay G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2214 DeeRay G NDE 4428  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was to be like any normal Sunday I guess, in that two things happened. My wife is a traveling nurse and was cancelled that morning. The other I got up to use the bathroom. While standing, I suddenly had this feeling come over me like nothing I had ever had. I seemed like I was knocked through myself and it was sweat and swaying. My wife was at the sink and I told her I felt weird. I turned to her and she knew that I was having a heart attack. She set me down.

As she did this, I started to float up. My mind was racing fast as I thought of my mom who passed away thirty years ago. I was looking for the Angel of Death. In a split second, I was thinking about the Learning Channel in which I had viewed a program saying people who lose oxygen sometimes see things. While this was going on, my wife went to get my brother-in-law. I just lay back with my eyes closed thinking I was talking to my wife when a lady handed me a washcloth to put on my face. She said, 'Here, this will make you feel better.' I thought to my wife, 'Wow, this is what you feel like when you have hot flashes.' When they came in to the room, I was talking and rubbing my hands over my face. She asked me whom I was talking to. I said, 'Her.' Then the pain shot through my jaw like a hot knife. I was air-flighted to St. Johns in Tulsa and on the way I was awakened by the paramedic flight crew as I was have problems once more. There was a lot of yelling, as it was noisy on the flight. I did wake up in the lab and thought Aliens had me but a guy named Steve assured me that he was human. I when out again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6-18-06

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The first fifteen minutes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The first fifteen minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There were little lights like fireflies all around until I started floating.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not see the Angel.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just the fireflies swirling around but that was short.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was ready to fight I remember thinking that if there was a Angel of Death I was going without a Fight!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have made some time in my life to pray.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have made some time in my life to pray.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I have made an effort to be a little more kind and not so anal about a lot of things, I guess what I'm trying to say is that I try to do the best I can do and not worry so much about what I can't change in my life. Maybe that's just maturing for me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't still know why I was given another chance, there are a lot of questions that roll through my head and heart sometimes late at night I thank the lord for my life because I don't have anyone else to thank. I think about that lady giving me that wash cloth and I truly believe now as in the past she has saved me a few time before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my family unit, the day after I had the stents. I had what they call the widow maker, and to this day they say it is a miracle that I'm here.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Well I almost drowned in Hawaii and that was the most frightened I have ever been.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Weeks after I recall being depressed, but I got over it. I just thought it came with the territory.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Once again it is a matter of not knowing what my true purpose is.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No thank you I saw Dr. Long on O'Reilly and thought what the heck. I don't really know the medical term my wife used other than 'A Widow Maker' I know I was blocked in the lower quad LAD and forty-five percent in the upper or vice versa. You might ask about the medical terminology?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deeray_g_nde.html