{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra Y NDE 22698","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra Y NDE 22698  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3059 Debra Y NDE 22698  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As a teacher, I was supervising students coming out two doors of the cafeteria for recess.  One child was running very fast when he should have been walking as there were one hundred twenty children filtering into a very small space.  I put my hand out to sign to him to slow down and whistled at him as we made eye contact.  The next thing I remember was looking down at my still body lying on the concrete from about twenty-five yards away and six yards in the air! I said to myself 'that's my body, but I am over here'.  I had this feeling of total peace, a peace beyond understanding. My body did not exist, my consciousness was totally ethereal. Time did not exist either. I was at perfect peace! When I joined my body again,  I still felt a sense by me of perfect peace and I didn't want to open my eyes to the muffled concerns of the three girls that I observed looking at my body when I had this out of body experience.  Finally their voices were heard by my conscious ears. I opened my eyes to pain.  I was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury.  But, the out of body experience certainly changed my spiritual views and I am no longer afraid of death.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/26/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Assault  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My conscious mind was ethereal and very aware of everything around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist.  I was totally separated from my body but observing my body and the people around it in perfect state of peace.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My consciousness was working but I had no body and only visual sense.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Perfect peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Universal Order in the sense that when we die our consciousness separates from a useless body to move into eternal space.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Peace that goes beyond man's notion of peace and that time is a construction of mankind and not of eternity.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Waking up was the worst part of the experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A psychiatrist who said I had an altered state of consciousness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_y_nde.html