{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra M Probable NDE 6933","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra M Probable NDE 6933  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3479 Debra M Probable NDE 6933  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember very vividly as though it happened yesterday. I actually went up and back from where I call 'home' three different times. I can recall being pulled or drawn to a very compelling bright light: spinning around very quickly. As I proceeded moving toward this light, I remember that there was some sort of wall, also spinning around me. I automatically had knowledge that whatever was in that spinning mass surrounding me was distant from God and life. It was not death but it was not good. It made me feel very sad. When I went into the light, I had no doubt that God was present. All the colors were much brighter; I felt a surge of energy. That energy was God giving me knowledge of where I was. Some he allowed me to be able to share and some things were very personal. I can't tell you what made me understand that it was God, I just knew. This happened to me three different times. 

I also remember that each time I crossed over into the spiritual world and came back; I possessed a different spirit, one of a boy in fact. The spirit that I possess now is one that has been alive forever. What happened to each spirit that I carried in each experience was left behind with God, including the one that I was born into the flesh. The one that lives in myself now was the last one God sent me back into the living world to finish out what God had intended it to do. I never knew about such a thing as near death experiences when the accident occurred, so sharing the event was not even given a thought. My family also noted that there was a change in me. On countless occasions, I was reminded that there was something different about me. I had changed and it seemed as though the Debra they knew did not exist anymore. All I know is that the Spirit that was living in Debra that came into the earth world was called back to God.  In effect, Debra had died, and was never to return. I can remember each time I went to God, and leaving the spirit behind. It was though it was God's way of allowing that particular spirit to continue the rest of its existence on earth until it was his time to call it back to Him. I know there is a God. I know that spirits are only supposed to be in the flesh for a purpose.  God let me know that. I am living proof. Home is where we go to God's home. I want to go back, for I know of the eternal Life, and Love, that is there.  I have so many events that I have gone through since that time.  These events remain unexplained as they are of God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a severe head-on collision. I went through a windshield and then another. I laid bleeding until help arrived. My head split open, I lost massive amounts of blood. I had multiple breaks to my bones. I was told that I had flat-lined three times.  I was given the nickname 'the miracle child'.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was aware of it all. I still am. There was no pain, suffering, no awareness of relative time. I was more tuned into everything. I just knew.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I can't put it into words.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My hearing was that of a normal child of eight years old. I see what other people don't. Spiritual things.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same as the vision.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like I was spinning like a top and being drawn into a light surrounding me, it was also a spinning wall. The wall around me was a dark void with sporadic streaks of bright light. It was not a place you would want to end up. I call it purgatory-like.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I just knew they were there and alive.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was brighter than a million suns yet compelling.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was not of this earth, that's for sure.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt safe, secure and very happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was raised Roman Catholic. I attended mass and went to private school. I never felt comfortable with the Catholic methods on how they worship our God. It never felt right to me.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They are stronger and have a purpose.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   My religious belief has always been Christian a believer in Christ. I just go about the relationship I have with him differently. More focused on God and Christ.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I just knew it was God. He let me know it was Him.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Same answer

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     No comment

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Wish not to share at this time'

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     No comment

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I am very personal about that I would not like to respond on this at this time

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     No comment

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     No comment

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     No comment

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Nothing is the same. I know more of the purpose why I am still here.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There were not then and until this very day I can't describe the awesome feeling it gave me to go through what I did. There just aren't enough words to describe the intense glorious feeling.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some were interested some not. Some have actually shared with me a similar experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I did not have anything to compare it to so I didn't really think of it that way.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_m_probable_nde.html