{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra C NDE 3477","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra C NDE 3477  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra C NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1542 Debra C NDE 3477  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was so excited, it was my first concert and date as a sixteen year old. Mike had invited me to a 'Styx' concert along with a group of friends. I had never drank before or did substances in my life. But, to fit in because I really liked Mike, I just followed what they were doing not knowing any type of limitation, etc.

They were drinking Southern Comfort and smoking pot. So, I followed suit, not wanting to but wanted to fit in.

After a while, I started feeling really sick, I could not catch my breath. I needed to get up off the bench and go for a walk trying to breathe. As Mike was walking me around the corridor behind the bleachers I all of a sudden grabbed him and yelled his name, I remember seeing his face and I could feel myself go directly down on the concrete.

At the same instance, I could feel myself (my spirit) start climbing up the side of the bleachers while looking people in the face as I was going up.  I started floating and looking around once again thinking 'WOW' I am still alive but I am in spirit form.  I realized too that 'WOW' I was super alert. I was talking but talking through my consciousness. I could feel someone on my left side and someone on my right side. It was very calming but I could not see anyone. It's as if I knew them but not sure who but they were communicating with me through my consciousness. Once again, can't explain in words.

At the same time, I can see the concert (I was high at or near the top of the roof looking down watching everything). I could hear but it was odd. As I was floating in place, colored orbs of indescribable color were coming toward me.  They surrounded me with a feeling of peace and calm that is indescribable.  Beautiful! Then whoever is beside me starts running through my life at a pace you cannot describe in words (like they did in with Scrooge in the Christmas story), showing bad and good. The part that got to me the most is when I was shown the pain and devastation that my leaving would cause my parents especially my mother. The cry (wailing) of my mother's voice was unbelievable. At the same time, I was looking for ways to get out of the building. 

I could see the attic fan as they call them spinning around at the rooftop I could get out there. I kept looking down at the doors watching a police officer at the entrance knowing when the door opened up I could float out that way but at the same time I knew I couldn't come back if I left. Everything seemed to be happening at a rate of speed that we have never experienced, it was like having full knowledge of life, at the same time whoever was next to me said I needed to make a choice.

They did tell me that my mother really needed me later in life that she was not strong enough to go on without me that I needed to show her the way later on, but it was still my choice. As soon as I made the choice to stay it was like a flash like no other and I was shoved back into my body. I was mad! The weight of the body was unbelievable. When I opened my eyes, a lady paramedic was standing over me with a look on her face that was very distraught. The feeling of sickness came back; my body kept shivering for hours. Since this experience, I have a different level of consciousness, it's really strange. I have helped people before certain events occur. I have experienced things and have been able to predict before they happen by feeling.

It has made a believer out of my husband, neighbor and others. It scares me sometimes knowing before things happen.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Winter 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    'Attending a concert (''Styx'') with a group of friends tried several things for the first time, could not catch my breath, one of my friends walked me around the stadium corridor, I remember as I was walking I turned to ''Mike'' and said his name, grabbe  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It felt immediate.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It felt immediate.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was not measured.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All of the above! It was incredible.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Your brain/consciousness was doing the hearing and talking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     You couldn't see anyone, you just could feel them all around you, communication was by consciousness, really cannot describe.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I knew there was another dimension but was not allowed to see it if I was going to stay, once you made that decision that was it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria, total peace and contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Seen everything at lightning speed, you felt all emotions, I try to live and help others, I have deep feelings for people and pets and their emotions and how they feel.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very accurate!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All of the above.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The actual feeling of euphoria, weightlessness, consciousness revelation is indescribable.  It was beyond anything you will ever experience here on earth.  The colors, my thought process during this time, everything that you see when you realize that you are no longer in your body but you are communicating to something.  You can't see it (them) but you can communicate by your consciousness.  I was going over my life, trying to decide to stay or go. I looked for a way out of the building, knowing if I left that I could not come back.  The orbs of colors were indescribable as they came toward me and then surrounded me.  They were very calming and beautiful.  I was shown the hurt that my parents would feel if I died was beyond hurt that we know.  The being told me that my mother would need me later in life.  This has come true.  Once I made that decision of staying or going, being told that I was not ready to leave earth, the re-entry into my body was so fast that I can't describe it.  The feeling of being back in my body was overwhelmingly heavy-weighted and indescribable. I could tell you everything going on while I was lying flat out in the corridor; I could see people's faces, the police officer, and the lady paramedic over me all at the same time my body was out cold.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It has been more psychic. I am highly intrigued by the paranormal stuff wanting to experience what I did during my event.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Taking care of my mother. The colored orbs, it was amazing in color and beauty and the peace that is all around.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have tried but they look at me as though I am crazy so I don't share it with anyone anymore. It's been very few people. My sister-in-law has also been over and back. She has died several times and been brought back, she has a serious illness.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened - it was as clear as day even to this day. I have never experienced anything like it since.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There are no words to fully describe the experience. People who have experienced it can relate.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Spirit life does exist; there is something out there much bigger than us.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I am happy to share my experience with someone who may believe me - it did happen to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_c_nde.html