{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra J NDE 2705","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra J NDE 2705  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						901  Debra J NDE  2705  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I got back in my body, real horror began. Firstly, due to a severe state of dehydration, my tongue was actually cleaving to the roof of my mouth and I could not hardly breathe at all. Remember, my sinuses had ruptured from the forced cocaine snorting. So, I had to actually take my finger, which was none too easy, to lift to my face to do it, and insert it into my mouth to force my swollen tongue down. I was very aware of being thirstier than ever before in my life and had to get to water. My body was very slow and not cooperating very well. When the realization of what had happened to me began to come back to my poor mind, terror, absolute terror filled me. Was he there? Were they all there? Would they kill me again? My ears and eyes were not working right either very well. Thirst drove me though to try to reach the bathroom. When I finally managed to get up from the bed, I noticed the bed sheets were covered with feces and urine, dried, and dried to the sheet and me. I had to rip the sheet from me and in the process reopen some wounds that the monster had inflicted his night of murder on me. It did not feel good and I thought I would pass out constantly as I tried to stand up.

I made it very slowly to the bathroom up the hall, holding my breath as I went, trying to hear who may be in the kitchen or living room. No sounds, but knowing 'them' that did not mean anything to me, the sneaky devils. But, I finally figured they were not there and when I got to the bathroom, I turned on the faucet first and the water was not coming out fast enough so I used the tub faucet and drank and drank and drank. After a few minutes, my wits started coming back to me and I also started breathing better. I heard a voice telling me to 'Hurry up and get dressed and leave.' I could hardly move and told the voice I could not do it. I was too weak and needed medical attention. The voice told, 'Do not go to the hospitals or to the police, he (Drew) had them.' Instinctively, I knew it was true. I made my way back to the bedroom adjusting my still affected eyes to see where my clothes were. Drew had ripped apart everything I owned, and it was lying all over the room.

I kept thinking, 'How can I DO this? I can't do this. I need help!' But the voice kept prodding me to 'Hurry up! Leave!' I managed to somehow get dressed and also to put some of my things in a big, black garbage bag and slowly make my way to the front door, now getting pretty tired of the voice telling me to 'Hurry up.' When I reached the front door, I felt like I was going to faint again but somehow strength came into me and I opened it. I was going to turn right toward the parking lot where my car was. But I heard very clearly, 'Turn left, LEFT!' I did what it told me and noticed that taking the left put me at the end of the apartment building with a sizeable few acres of land behind it, nothing else. The voice then told me to HIDE. I put myself up against the building and felt to look around very carefully and saw two of Drew's monkey men, 'the suits', as I called them, coming up the path to the apartment, carrying what looked like a body bag. Total fear filled me and I began to shake all over, 'Oh No! What do I do now??!!' I looked all around and there was nothing but a huge piece of land in front of me, and the road may as well have been a thousand miles away to reach in the hopes of someone picking me up and helping me. The voice told me to 'Start walking! Run!' I could barely walk nevertheless run and I kept arguing with it, insisting I could do all this it was telling me to do. Visions of terror filled my mind. When they get in there and see I'm gone, they will come out and find me out here trying to run down this stupid hill and shoot me in the back!! Oh God! Oh God, help me please. Don't let them find me, don't let them see me!' And walk/run I did, gasping for air and nearly falling head over heels at every moment.

Suddenly, I was standing some two or so miles down the road across the street from Inn, a motel that Drew and I had stayed at a couple of times. I nearly passed out again and bent down on the sidewalk, still carrying my big garbage sack of my personal things I had collected. I felt totally out of it and dizzy but somehow better. And I had no idea how I could've got there so fast. The realization that I had not gotten there on my own filled me. That I had in fact been transported, just picked up and dropped off in a second. What happened next over the next few days is one miracle after another. What I have written here will be in my book, which I hope to be published sometime this year. All the above is true. God's saving grace on my life deserves to be shared with those who need encouragement for the life we all have to live here on Planet Earth. Life is not easy. We all make mistakes and some die because of it. Only His grace could've saved me from dying that day in November 1978 and His miraculous ways of saving my life. I was saved for a purpose and many purposes since then.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'November 16, 1978'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         'Was murdered by Andrew Thornton, who at the time was the 'main man' for cocaine and other drugs over a 5 state area. He was also a gun runner for the Cartel. We had met a few weeks prior through a common acquaintance, a woman of low reputation in the Lou  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Like I said above - the madman, his delusions and drugs.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Due to the level of high intensity and fear and wondering if I would be found and tortured and killed again, I was pretty much on high gear. I did feel bouts of total exhaustion however and at times would simply collapse, unable to move or speak. But some kind of power would come into me. That's all I know and I would be able to do what I did not think I could.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Well, I was pretty messed up physically the whole time, understandably. I have often wondered why God chose not to divinely heal me so I did not have to go through all that pain. Spiritually, I was very, very conscious by the time I was transported. Something, some level of supernatural strength definitely seemed to fill me. No one in my condition could have done what was being required of me without intervention.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I know for sure that I was 'gone' for three days. That is according to the last known date before Drew killed me.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     An unusual sense of knowing and hearing that voice that simply would not shut up even when I would tell it to. I ended up screaming at it to leave me alone!!!  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing became very sensitive and I could hear things that no one else could. I also started seeing a wheel of some sort that would form in my field of vision, which was for many years, just black and white, but a few years ago, it turned into colors on the wheel. Something I feel to do with spiritual maturity, graduation or something. I have a lot of spiritual experiences, even prior to this situation and certainly after.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I cannot recall HOW I got there, I just got there.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings, although I could not see their faces clearly, had these heads that were not human as we know it. They also had some rather large and pointed ears.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   When I was before the council of thirteen beings (and they were not human, I know that!) There was no actual light, just a grayish mist everywhere.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     vague stuff.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, dread, fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Well, we 'talked' about some things, and I think they took me somewhere else and showed some things although they did not allow me to remember all that. The place I was at looked like it was round inside, not square. Now I think it may have been some space ship.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was an agnostic before and really, a self-proclaimed atheist. Needless to say, I'm not atheist any more.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I'm searching although Jesus is still my Master  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was an agnostic before and really, a self-proclaimed atheist. Needless to say, I'm not atheist any more.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Can't explain.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know I am considered to be 'unusual' to say the least. I perceive things that most do not. I hear sounds that are REAL and when others find out I heard a neighbor's phone half way down the block when I said I did and they did not, they sort of look at me funny. Ha. But my sensitivity to energy fields and what people are thinking, feeling, etc. have an interesting effect on them and me as well. Some people are just scared of me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When Drew got the information, he assumed it was me, and that I had duped him and was out to get him. Not knowing any of this as none of it was true; he set me up to try to get information from me, of which I did not have, how could I? He started tearing apart my wallet and purse for hidden proof of some kind, then began to abuse me with his gun, pointed to my head as I was bending before him begging for my life. He beat me and had his 'monkey men' raped and sodomize me for several hours during the night, and he started chewing on the back of my neck until it opened and he drank my blood - horrific but true. He dragged me into the bedroom and began to force me to snort huge amounts of cocaine until my sinuses ruptured, spilling blood everywhere. But that wasn't enough for this devil. He started injecting the crap into me, between my fingers, as he was telling me how he could make anyone die and they wouldn't know why. In between life and death, I begged incessantly for my life as I had a son who at the time was four years old. My whole heart was crying out to live for him. He killed me anyway, threw me into the bed naked and bleeding to die.  Next thing I knew, I was standing in front of a council of thirteen beings with the One in the middle twice as big as the six on either side of him. They were all sitting in chairs, big chairs at a sizeable distance in front of me. I was naked and felt totally revealed and tried to use my hands to cover myself up. The main one in the middle began to speak to me through the mist that was everywhere. I remember opening my mouth but he told me I did not have to talk, to just use my mind. I recall it was hard for me not to open my mouth to speak but I did what he told me. The questions they were asking me were about my life and how I had lived it. I got the feeling they were not pleased with me. I was terrified to say the least, exposed to the hilt. I knew they knew it all. Towards the end of the deal, he told me they were not going to let me remember most of what happened. And they had decided they were going to send me back because, 'You have to get it right.' Next thing I knew I was in my body on the bed, some three days later.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Hearing the voice, being constantly directed and divinely protected although there were some close calls at times over the following few days, especially.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This is getting redundant.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Oh, I was pretty hushed mouthed for a while. Not too many people can take that sort of thing in, myself included. Plus I was total confusion myself! I knew no one would know or be able to help me with understanding it. I mean, if I had told my religious parents, like what would they had said other than, 'Call the paddy wagon!'  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had died when I was about seven years old from pneumonia while in a hospital. I DID see the Light and was told I had to go back but I remember I did not want to come back then, at all. So, I always knew, from seven anyway, that there was 'the other side'.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Still mystified to say the least. It took years and years and years to just begin to understand.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well, at this point, I think that I was a pretty stupid girl in some ways. I set myself up to be with the wrong crowd to say the least. But, on the other hand, I was and still am a spiritual seeker and I think God likes that in me. I really do want to get it right. Those last words from the council had a definite effect on me. I still search for Truth. I know that it is Jesus but there is so much more on Him that few know about, I have come to find out.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I am writing about all that.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       All I can say is that that particular experience and many others have made me beyond aware, and open yet at the same time, at times, frightened. It's a big world out there and all around us. Sometimes it is best not to be so open and wondering about stuff. I am a bit jealous of those who have little to no knowledge of things of the Spirit realm. Must be nice. Ignorance IS bliss.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A lot of questions but good ones. Hope you got some insight into my experience. Remember, I have a lot more than that one.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_j_nde.html