{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra B NDE 4516","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra B NDE 4516  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2276 Debra B NDE 4516  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't remember anything before the accident, as me and my ex-boyfriend were drinking heavily. 

All I know is it happened around 3:00 a.m. and the next thing I know, I feel this floating sensation - I wasn't in my body. Next, it was really dark, like a tunnel floating toward this light and as I was floating further on the light was getting bigger and brighter. Next, I saw my mom (she died in 2000) and she was standing in front of the light. She was wearing this white gown and it looked as if she was glowing. She had her head down and her eyes up staring at me and we were communicating in our minds. It was as if we could read each other's thoughts! I don't remember what we talked about, but I still remember what she looked like and that stare - the stare she always had when she was alive and worried about something.

I was in a coma for a month, but it didn't feel that long at all in my NDE. It felt like maybe an hour or less, which tells me time doesn't exist in the afterlife!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 23, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSurgery-relatedDirect head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) My ex-boyfriend pushed me out of his car moving at 40 mph  I lost ten percent of my brain when I was pushed from the moving car, I cracked the left side of my skull and part of my brain was dragging on the street. I cracked my left eye socket and my brain was coming through my eye pushing it out. I was in an instant coma, I had a tracheotomy, I was on life support, etc.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw my mom, but I was still confused.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my mom, but I was still confused.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It didn't seem like any time existed there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't feel like I was in my physical body at all, I felt as if I was floating toward the light and my mom. Communication wasn't of this world as we know it here - it was in our minds and reading from your mind what each one of us was saying.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark tunnel with a floating sensation moving toward a bright light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mom and we communicated in our minds, not by mouth verbally like we do in this world.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a little light and as I was floating closer to the light it was brighter and brighter.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, relaxed, unafraid, and peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I don't believe in any religion, I believe in God and that there is a Heaven / after life.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church, I never have. I believe in God and if I want to pray, he will hear me wherever.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Don't have a specific religion, I believe in God and when I pray I can do it anywhere and the lord hears me.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church, I never have. I believe in God and if I want to pray, he will hear me wherever.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I'm uncertain, I sensed I was out of my physical body on my way to the afterlife.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love my husband, I met a man who I love that doesn't make a lot of money - but that doesn't matter. What matters to me in life, now more than it used to, is having love. You're rich if you have love and you're in love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When I woke up from my one month coma I was calling everyone mom and asking where my mom went?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sensed a few things after my NDE and they happened.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I always believed but until a NDE happens to anyone they change for the better. At least I did! I pray all the time and not for selfish things. I care about people more and want to help if I can. I really do thank God for my experience; I think it has made me a far better person today.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I came out of my coma I was calling everyone mom. I still tell others, but not as much. Some people look at me in a strange way. I can't tell if they think I'm full of it - I get a sense they fear me when I tell people. So I tend to keep it to myself - to strangers anyway!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mom had a NDE when she was younger and it was nothing like mine, she saw colors she couldn't explain that don't compare to any colors here in this world.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real and this is the part that is hard to put into words for people to understand it. I just know it was real and nobody you can share your story with will every feel what I felt until they experience it themselves.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, I can say no more. You have to experience it or others won't feel what I felt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_b_nde.html