{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debra_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Debra K NDE 9579","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debra K NDE 9579  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debra K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5160 Debra K NDE 9579  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On February 26, 2023, at 3:30 a.m. I went into V-fib cardiac arrest and died. The doctors used the defibrillator paddles to bring me back to life.

     All day that Saturday, I had what I thought was heart burn. So, I was taking Tums antacids all day long. I went to sleep, but woke up at 3 in the morning.  I thought I was having a gall bladder attack.  I called 911, and told them don’t put on lights and sirens because I would meet them downstairs. I then walked down  4 flights of stairs.  The ambulance arrived and they hooked me up to various machines.  They told me it was my heart and that I had an hour.  They rushed me to the hospital where I was greeted by about 15 doctors, nurses, and other medical staff.  They put all sorts of needles in my both my arm veins and I felt myself falling asleep. Ten minutes after arrival, my heart went into V-fib. 

The next thing I know I hear my name being screamed.  I opened my eyes and the doctor asked me if I saw the light? He told me that I had died and that they had to paddle me back to life when my heart stopped. 

I then told him what happened. It was like a Peter Max poster. I saw the most vividly beautiful, psychedelic colors that I had ever seen in my life. I felt peace like I have never felt before and it was actually beautiful. I also told him that I was annoyed they brought me back. 

  Later, another cardiologist went in through groin to put in a balloon and a stent in my lower heart chamber to remove a blockage. All I kept hearing the next two days was that I shouldn’t be alive.  If I didn’t call an ambulance exactly at the time I did, I wouldn’t be alive.  I quit smoking the night it happened. The weird part is that when they paddled me, the doctor said it rewired my brain. This body doesn’t think it ever smoked, so I never went through any withdrawals or cravings. I now have no fear of death despite having had panic attacks about death my whole life. 
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 26, 2023  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I went into v-fib cardiac arrest  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Everything was clear, bright, beautiful, and unreal.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have 20/20 now, yet my eyes have never seen colors like I saw during my experience.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There were bright colors I've never seen on earth.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.  I was surrounded by bright, beautiful colors  

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace and love  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment     

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now wear religious metals  - a cross, a star of all religions and beliefs etc  

What is your religion now?       No comment     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was always afraid of death. I never thought I would go somewhere and see and feel what I did after I died.  

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe in life after death.  There is another realm or dimension after we die.  I now believe materialistic things are not important  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There is universal connection and oneness in a mystical, colorful place  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes.   I feel I have been to the other side. I know what dying feels like.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was definitely in another realm  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes.      I felt  love and peace  on the other side.

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I feel more at peace.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember what happened as if it just happened and think about it everyday.  

  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sometimes know what's going to happen. I often dream of strangers first and last names.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        all  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared immediately.   I didn't care if they believed me or not  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I felt immediately that my experience  was real  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.  My experience is real  because it happened to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am blessed to have had this experience and to come back and let people know. The best advice I can give is to let people know not to be AFRAID of death.         			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_k_nde.html