{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah G NDE 4731","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah G NDE 4731  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2395 Deborah G NDE 4731  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My sister and I were two and three years old. We climbed onto the sink into the cabinet and took out the St. Joseph aspirins. I split them up two for her three for me, one for her two for me. When the bottle was empty we ate them like they were candy (to this day I cannot take the smell or taste of anything that reminds me of these aspirins). My mom found us, saw what happened, and called my father and we went to the hospital.

In the hospital, I remember leaving my body.  I saw doctors and nurses around my parents and me in the hall. I saw and heard the doctor talk to my parents and tell them for one of your daughters we were able to pump her stomach; but your other daughter we could not and she has passed. While this was happening, I left the area of my body and there was Jesus; he put out his hand, I grabbed it, and we start walking to this light. All communication between us was not speaking with our mouths, but with our minds. He said my child you have a choice you may come with me into the light and go home or you may return. We communicated like old friends, I said I would like to go home but I must stay with my sister and I still have things to do. At this time I saw my parents come into the room, (my father did not believe the doctors) and when they saw me they were crying and giving me a kiss then the heart monitor started to beep. They called the doctor back in who had a look of shock on his face and could not believe it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Took aspirin between myself and sister.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Overdose on aspirin.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All times.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light all around me was bright but not blinding. Jesus had a wonderful light white with gold around him.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative. Also when walking I could see figures at the end waiting but do not know who they were.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was definitely a different area; very comfortable and peaceful

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was home so it was peaceful and knowing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned there is more and to follow my heart. Growing up I was able to leave and visit home whenever I wanted. My favorite place to this day is to go to the waterfall into a huge lake with trees and see my spirit animals and deceased members if I want or just to go alone and rejuvenate.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was able to see people who passed and talk to them. Most of the times it was to give a message or say I have left. I also knew when things could happen to someone or myself (helped keep me safe). Some times I would know there would be earth quake but could not pin point exactly where.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Born a Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I never believed in churches; I want to pray and talk I do it every day; as a child I would go outside and watch the clouds and pray. Then I would close my eyes and see myself up on the clouds and pray. I do not believe just one church is right. It is what is in your heart and soul and asking God, Jesus, past family members, Angels or your spirit animals they are always there and if you listen with your heart you will hear them.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Growing up went to church and CCD for sacraments but always knew there was something more of the universal of love

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I never believed in churches; I want to pray and talk I do it every day; as a child I would go outside and watch the clouds and pray. Then I would close my eyes and see myself up on the clouds and pray. I do not believe just one church is right. It is what is in your heart and soul and asking God, Jesus, past family members, Angels or your spirit animals they are always there and if you listen with your heart you will hear them.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Purpose to help yourself understand what we are learning here and to help others if they ask.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was three so I was told I was born with the veil and for as long as I can remember I always had a gift. Seeing spirits, leaving my body walking with Jesus whenever I wanted, knowing things before they happen. Knowing of some of my past life experiences. Talking with Jesus, my guardians, angels and family members who have past or seeing them to for comfort.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was significant. I know we are all here for a learning experience to help us grow spiritually.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Always.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was three with a gift to me this was just part of life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see everything clearly in my mind. It is part of who I am.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_g_nde.html