{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah H NDE 7772","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah H NDE 7772  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4013 Deborah H NDE 7772  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 7 years old.  My two older brothers and I went to the dock near our house.  Then we jumped into the water.  I could not swim so my brothers gave me a Clorox bottle with a lid on it so that I could float.  I paddled around awhile with the plastic bottle in hand.  Then I saw a ski in the water so I grabbed it and let go of the Clorox bottle.  The ski sank along with me and I was drowning. 

I left my body.  As I was ascending, I saw a binder come in front of me with big metal rings on it.  The binder had many pages that turned in front of my eyes.  I saw everything that I had ever done wrong.  As innocent as I may have been at 7 years old, I had obviously done many things that were not acceptable, like cursing or kicking an animal.  The pages on that binder turned so fast it was hard to imagine how my brain was processing all that information.  But somehow I knew every item that I was being judged for and I felt so bad for what I done.  Then I flew very quickly through a wormhole-like cloud to a grayish cloud like a slowly spinning tunnel with large soft grayish looking clouds padding the inside of the spiral tunnel formation.  There I was alone at the base of the tunnel and I could see a light at the end of the tunnel.  I also saw what I thought was a female form that looked like my Aunt who had passed away.  She was inside the tunnel turning away from me and floated away towards the light. I was very frightened and very, very aware of my surroundings. I was suddenly and very quickly pushed backwards by some unseen force.

I woke-up at the beach being worked on by my brothers who were pushing the water out of my lungs.  I was always aware after that experience that there's a life after death because I saw things that are very hard to explain especially the binder and the quick trip to the tunnel and the other worldly experience.  I definitely saw the tunnel and the binder and was shown some things that changed my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In the beginning of the experience I could hear my brothers and see them when I was drowning as if I floated out of my body and was watching from above and from inside my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Extreme consciousness of my surroundings and an ability to pass through things quickly like wormholes and consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is a time that we can't possibly, understand it's so fast and all information is processed at speeds that are not from this world.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was heightened and able to see colors and shapes better.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was heightened.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I got to part of the tunnel and was taken back, before passing all the way through.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An image of my deceased Aunt appeared in the tunnel.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Hard to explain but it was not the same light that we see.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Like a wormhole and then a tunnel (slowly spinning), it appeared to be gray in color.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was frightened...I was being judged.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I was being judged.  Then sent back.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was being judged and a binder with big metal rings that held an account of everything that I had ever done wrong.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now know that we are judged, that's what I took back with me.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me!  I saw it! Same as question 34 and 35.  They gave all the information I needed to continue on the right path by:  sending me back to tell others of my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me.  I saw it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   When I was being judged and images of what I would call God and Jesus appeared before me.  They were kind to me, as I was very frightened.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   God and Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me!  I saw it!

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me!  I saw it!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Question 32 should answer that.  I saw the book of judgement and the tunnel, I was 7!  I saw it.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me.  I saw it. They gave all the information I needed to continue on the right path by:  sending me back to tell others of my experience.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me!  I saw it! They gave all the information I needed to continue on the right path by:  sending me back to tell others of my experience.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw the book of judgement and the tunnel, I was 7!  I saw it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     We will all be judged!  Please be kind to others and do the right thing!

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     By being judged!!

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God forgave me and sent me back!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me.  I saw it.     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me.  I saw it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything seemed to be passing through my thoughts very fast but I was able to understand.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many times.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never got over it. It was otherworldly.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was being judged and that was all the information that I needed to take back with me.  I saw it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had another experience during surgery, came out of my body, floated over the body, and was able to recall details of the surgery to the surgeon that seemed to frighten him and he could not understand how I knew.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was able to float through walls, see, and hear things from family far away.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Some questions are too similar to others.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_h_nde.html