{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah P NDE 775","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah P NDE 775  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						288  Deborah P NDE  775  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had taken a herbal supplement for the first time, recommended by a naturopath.


Within a couple of minutes, I knew something was wrong.


I was helping my mother who had fallen and had a suspected broken wrist. I did not want to alarm her so I did not tell her my full concerns about how I was feeling. I have always believed that the body is an amazing thing. It somehow kept me going until I was in an environment that was safe for me - hospital, three hours later.


During this approximate three-hour period, my main concern was not to worry my mother, who is very good at this. I'd seen a doctor who had advised that I go to hospital as I was having an allergic reaction and I should be observed. When I arrived at the hospital, I was taken straight into the acute section.


I remember getting into a gown; I remember questions, machines being hooked up, and the sound of the heart monitor. I remember my right hand trying to pull the adrenalin mask off my face and a nurse with my left arm and me having to use every ounce of strength, will power, determination, whatever it was, just to get the words 'not good' out. I remember thinking that I was falling, to the right, apparently I was lying down the whole time. I remember hearing someone say, 'Get the mother, now.' I remember hearing my mother say, 'Oh, my God.' I remember knowing that my mother was holding my hand but I don't remember physically feeling her hand.


I remember the sensation of being pulled backwards, not lying down; I was in a sitting position. Everything around me was a hazy grey, like thick grey fog but with a bright white light in the distance, at the top ('top' being the only way I can describe it) shinning down and through the fog.


There were no sounds. There was also no more fear, no more pain, I wasn't terrified anymore. It was peace, it was my nirvana and I was happy to be there. I have never felt anything like it. I can still feel that feeling today.


And then I was back. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    August 3 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I did not see my body from a distance. I felt my whole body move.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?     What is time?

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     There were no walls as such.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright white light as stated above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The experience was beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The experience was special.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     That family, true friends and health are what truly matter.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     There is another dimension.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The way it's changed my life, the way I feel, think.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't share it with everyone. Some look at me strangely, some have cried, one was jealous. I have lost friends.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_p_nde.html