{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah S NDE 3224","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah S NDE 3224  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1196  Deborah S NDE  3224  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was laying in my bed and I had a catheter, a feeding tube, a drainage tube, oxygen, and talking with my roommate. I felt the flush from my catheter and I knew I was bleeding out. I looked at the roommate and then turned my head towards the door, my mother was walking in and I was experiencing blackness from the outer edges of my eyes. I tried to scream but nothing, no sound came out. My mother walked up to the bed and slapped my face saying, 'It's about time you woke up.' My roommate started yelling and saying there was blood running off the side of the bed on her side. I then heard code blue to my room. I felt the black haired nurse's hair brush my face and I smelled her clean hair and I knew she was in a panic to get an IV started. I wanted to say something but then I astral projected to the ceiling and watched as the crash cart came barreling into the room. The doctor came in yelling orders and yelling at me to not die on him he had spent too much time on me so I could live and don't quit on him NOW!

I then went through the tunnel of black void and into the light. As I emerged into the light, I felt sunshine warmth and smelled the earth, the grasses and flowers. I came through the tunnel and standing at the edge, I saw a large green meadow and tall grasses and a body of water. On the other side stood a male being in a white gown and a black and white long haired dog. I do not know how I got across the water but I went to them and they led me to a very, very tall golden knobbed door. As I went to put my hand on the door a being said something to me and in my mind, I started to think of my three small children. The next thing I felt was a swish and I was in total darkness.

The nurse who stayed with me for three days in the unit said that I held a conversation with someone or maybe more than one and I asked them a lot of questions. NO ONE would ever let me read the nurses notes nor would the male nurse tell me what I said. I saw him a year later and he was telling the people at his table that I had been confessing some wrongs I had done and they were pretty funny and he told them some things I had said. What he told them was true. When I again questioned him, he just laughed and I left very upset and ashamed.

In 1998, I had heart failure on the operating table, it was during my fifteenth surgery that year and I do not remember anything from that time of being in a void.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1982

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Hemorrhage from kidneys.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Upon the being saying something to me and I thought of my three kids and everything went black.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A tunnel of pitch darkness but I was not afraid just wanted to hurry to get to the beyond because I could feel the warmth and love.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The male and the dog.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Like daylight but very warm and loving, with a lot of peacefulness, I had been in it before from another's death as I was cleaning them up for the morgue and I knew what it was I was going towards.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the meadow , the tall doors

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     The higher power whoever you believe it to be is your truth, religion is a structure not a spiritual belief. It's inside yourself. You do not need lessons or sermons on how to correctly be accepted into the Kingdom. All that you need is being willing to believe in a higher power, live within the realm of higher awareness, hurt no one, judge no one and forgive yourself.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   'Reiki energy healer, medicine woman'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     The higher power whoever you believe it to be is your truth, religion is a structure not a spiritual belief. It's inside yourself. You do not need lessons or sermons on how to correctly be accepted into the Kingdom. All that you need is being willing to believe in a higher power, live within the realm of higher awareness, hurt no one, judge no one and forgive yourself.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told I had more to do one the earth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  My children think I am weird and I have no significant other in my life.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Permission to use my gifted abilities I had been afraid to admit to - because of my mother's religious beliefs of being of Satan origins.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Knowing I was not going to hell as my mother kept saying I was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Right away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No   Yes I worked daily with the death and dying and I loved it. I knew the good passing on and the cold death. I had walked in the LIGHT at another person's death as I was cleaning them up for the morgue.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I was upset to think that even God did not want me. My mother had made this comment to me while I was just coming out of the three days of void and it stuck in my mind. I had several years after that where I felt even God did not want me - then Reiki found me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I am now a energy healer working on a teaching Masters and a Medicine Woman working on a PhD in Herbals.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I did a Reiki session with a Master - no medications or substances.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_s_nde.html