{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_le_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah Le NDE 2050\/700","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah Le NDE 2050/700  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Deborah Le NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						231  Deborah Le NDE  2050/700  					  				  			    			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description (2050) 10/24/2004   

I was pretty interested in watching them push on me, and glad I couldn't feel the pain any more.  I looked over and saw a boy I had known in Junior High, Greg, and said 'Hi Greg, what are you doing here?'  (Bear in mind, I didn't really look over, and I didn't really say anything, but that's the only way I know to describe the communication).  I remember thinking, saying? What a silly thing to say, and he saying it's OK.  I could see he had the form I remembered him.  I could pull energy around me to form my earthly shape, and it would start to dissipate, and I would try and pull it around me again, but when it would start to dissipate I knew I didn't need to pull the energy around me, and I would try not to.  I think one of the reason Greg was there was so I would know I was dead, as he was the only person I knew at the time who had died.  I remember thinking when I first got there, before I noticed Greg, a great feeling of relief and overwhelming love, and understanding everything.  I thought, 'Oh yeah, I remember now, it's sooo simple.  I will never forget again.' but of course, I did forget everything. 

Behind me (not really behind but I can't describe it any other way) were lots of people in a beautiful garden-park  maybe 60 people, and they were all excited to see me, and I was sooo excited to see them, almost jumping up and down type of excitement.  I knew I was in my real home, and I knew that my life on earth? Was important, but it wasn't the most important part of my life.  (I remember thinking of it as I think of high school now, or maybe junior high, important and something you need to do but not THE most important part of total life). 

I also saw, and I guess the only way to describe it is a life review, but it was in a flash only momentary, but it about covered it.  There were things I was embarrassed about, and felt like I had to forgive myself for these acts.  Then I could go be with my family, (I knew these people were family) and I knew then that some of the people I knew in this lifetime as friends were also part of my greater real family.  Greg then said, 'You know you have to decide real soon' and I said, 'I know, I think I want to stay, It's so nice here.'  And he said, 'don't you want to be with your son?'  I asked, 'He isn't staying?' Greg said, 'No he's is going back' and I said, 'I am going back then.'  I didn't want to though.  Then Greg left and I went back to my body.  

I have often wondered if Greg is my son.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/17/1975  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could remember my earth life, but also remember my 'other' life, and other people.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I 'remembered' that I didn't have to keep pulling the energy together to make my 'body' form together.  I could see behind me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There seemed to be no time, everything was on a continuum, I guess.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see everything, the things between the two worlds. I guess, but mainly I was aware.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing actually, only telepathic communication.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was first aware of being on the ceiling of the hospital room and then behind me I saw where I could go on to if I wanted to.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     On the ceiling of the hospital room when I got there, was a friend of mine from the 7th grade who had died of cancer.  I didn't feel surprised to see him.  I was a little embarrassed because I was trying not to be confused, but it seemed perfectly normal that he be there.    I also saw maybe 20-25 people in the other plane, behind me, and they were very excited to see me, and I them.  I was so happy, and I wanted to be with them very much.  I knew they were family but now I don't know who they were.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I could only see the difference from the plane of the hospital room, and the other place behind me that was much more colorful and bright and lots of people whom I don't remember knowing, but I knew them then, and was sooo happy to see them 'again'.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In question 16, the different planes, and being aware of both.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relief, I think.  Happiness and a great sense of homecoming.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I don't remember an actual review, but I do remember a sense of embarrassment not over one particular past incident, but over all of them at one time.  I knew all of the mistakes at one time.  I can't explain it, but I also knew I only had to forgive myself and they would be forgiven.  Or forgotten, or something.  I just had to face them or admit them or something like that.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Probably agnostic or none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My daughter says I am part Jewish, part Buddhist, and part Christian.  I think she may be right.    

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I would say I am spiritual, but not religious as far as any organized religion)  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My daughter says I am part Jewish, part Buddhist, and part Christian.  I think she may be right.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   I don't think the knowledge was special as far as spreading it around, but I felt a kind of remembering the why and how of everything that i had forgotten while in this life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think of people that I feel connected to in life, that we are connected forever. Not just my family, but I feel that the life we choose here, is with different family members from the bigger family we have.    I think my family is my family and it is really part of a much bigger family from the other side. While I don't know them as family while we are here on earth, when we are there on the other side we remember them.  Maybe we choose to spend some time on earth with them another time.  I don't know how to explain it.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There were feelings I don't think I have ever had before, deep emotional feelings.  There was a sense of homecoming that I still can't explain. I thought 'oh i remember now, i won't ever forget again', but I did.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I didn't really think so at the time or even later.  But I do seem to be able to tell what people are thinking and why they do things they do.  Maybe more empathy, I am not sure.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The joy of seeing my family and the sense of relief and the sense of knowledge of 'everything'  I only remember the sense of the knowledge now, not the actual knowledge.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I told only a girlfriend who I knew wouldn't question me or think I am crazy.  It was probably almost 10 years later until I told my sister, after another event prompted me to think she might believe me, and then only a few people whom I felt needed to hear it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I had read 'Bridie Murphy' when I was in high school.  That was my only previous experience, and it didn't affect me at all, but maybe made me know it was not a dream maybe.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because I had died on the childbirth table.  The doctor and nurse were saying that they lost the baby's heart beat and then they lost the mothers heartbeat.  Then, I was on the ceiling.  I could see the nurse trying to push the baby out of me, and then I quit paying attention.  I could have watched the whole time, but more and more I became less interested in the event.  Until I knew it was time to choose, and I willingly (but not without regrets) went back.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. I view it as another experience I had to have in this life.  It is one of the bigger experiences, like my wedding or the birth of my four children. A big event like that, but just another event.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No               		


            		Experience Description  3/22/2003 

I was pretty interested in watching them push on me, and glad I couldn't feel the pain any more.  I looked over and saw a boy I had known in Junior High, Greg, and said 'Hi Greg, what are you doing here?'  (Bear in mind, I didn't really look over, and I didn't really say anything, but that's the only way I know to describe the communication).  I remember thinking, saying? What a silly thing to say, and he saying it is OK.  I could see he had the form I remembered him by. I could pull energy around me to form my earthly shape, and it would start to dissipate, and I would try and pull it around me again, but when it would start to dissipate I knew I didn't need to pull the energy around me, and I would try not to.  I think one of the reason Greg was there was so I would know I was dead, as he was the only person I knew at the time who had died.  I remember thinking when I first got there, before I noticed Greg, a great feeling of relief and overwhelming love, and understanding everything.  I thought, 'Oh yeah, I remember now, it's sooo simple.  I will never forget again.' but of course, I did forget everything. 

Behind me (not really behind but I can't describe it any other way) were lots of people in a beautiful garden-park  maybe 60 people, and they were all excited to see me, and I was sooo excited to see them, almost jumping up and down type of excitement.  I knew I was in my real home, and I knew that my life on earth? Was important, but it wasn't the most important part of my life.  (I remember thinking of it as I think of high school now, or maybe junior high, important and something you need to do but not THE most important part of total life). 

I also saw, and I guess the only way to describe it is a life review, but it was in a flash only momentary, but it about covered it.  There were things I was embarrassed about, and felt like I had to forgive myself for these acts.  Then I could go be with my family, (I knew these people were family) and I knew then that some of the people I knew in this lifetime as friends were also part of my greater real family.  Greg then said, 'You know you have to decide real soon' and I said, 'I know, I think I want to stay, It's so nice here.'  And he said, 'don't you want to be with your son?'  I asked, 'He isn't staying?' Greg said, 'No, he's is going back' and I said, 'I am going back then.'  I didn't want to though.  Then Greg left and I went back to my body.  

I have often wondered if Greg is my son.

Background Information:   

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?           In the last stages of childbirth, the placenta separated from the uterus.  The doctor was called in.  I could hear the nurse say, 'we are losing the baby's heartbeat' repeatedly.  Then she said, 'we lost the baby's heartbeat.  We are losing the mother's heartbeat.' Then I was at the ceiling looking down at them pushing on my stomach.  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see my body on the delivery table.  I didn't really have a body, but I could pull energy together and make a form if I wanted to, but it was not necessary.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert and very conscious  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt there was no time, that all was the same time.  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I guess you could describe it as a sound, but it would only be for lack of better words, but it was a feeling of sound that caused complete joy.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No       

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes       

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I didn't travel that far, but I could feel the presence of it. I just can't explain it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I said look over and behind but I think on another level would be a better way to describe it  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew then, but not now, and I remember what it felt like to know.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew everything then but not now.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am not afraid to die, but I am happy to be here, too.  I enjoy knowing my children and my grandchild and I love them soooo much.  I think I have made my children not afraid to die.  If you are not afraid to die, you can have a much better life.

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   For example, I say 'He said' or 'I said' and no one says anything, but you just know what is being said, (or thought, I guess)  I say I saw my friend Greg, and I did see his body, and mine too, but it was just a great amount of energy that I could hold together in form, but it wasn't necessary to do it, it was just for me to recognize until I remembered. See? Unexplainable.  I just knew.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have empathy with each person, and can feel why they act the way they do.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feeling of joy and love. No bad part.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I did not tell anyone except a girlfriend who I knew would believe me.  When I started to tell someone, they would think I was a freak.  After my 3rd son was 3 and had his own NDE, and told me about it (at age 3) did I start telling people and I didn't really care then if they thought I was a freak, because I knew.  Some people tell me it gives them the chills and some people just give me a funny look and stay away!     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_le_nde.html