{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debora_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Debora E NDE 2223","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debora E NDE 2223  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debora E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						620  Debora E NDE  2223  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I floated up to the ceiling and could see my body lying on the table. The doctors were alarmed and saying that they were losing me. I was not scared, I was with a couple of very kind people that I believed at the time were angels. They told me not to worry they would take care of me.

I heard a whooshing sound and was being propelled up through a dark tunnel towards a light. As I looked around there were other people who I believed were angels who surrounded me in the tunnel, they were singing. I wasn't worried I felt very calm and happy.

When I reached the end of the tunnel, I was bathed in a bright warm light that felt very serene. I felt safe and happy. A woman held out her hand to me, she was lovely and I felt that she loved me and knew who I was. I felt safe in her company. I didn't know who she was. She held my hand while I heard a conversation between the angels who accompanied me and the voice that came from the light. The voice said that it was not my time. The voice said I had not had my children yet so I had to go back. I didn't want to go back! I wanted to stay where I felt loved and safe from harm. The beautiful lady said not to worry someday I would be back and she would see me then.

I found myself back in my body. I woke up from the surgery and didn't tell anyone for many years what had happened. One day a few years after the surgery, my mother showed me a picture of my paternal grandmother, who had died giving birth to my father. It was the lovely woman who held my hand at the other side of the tunnel. I had never seen a picture of her before.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October  1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart stopped from anesthesia during surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My mind was clearer because I didn't feel endangered, my thoughts weren't clouded by fear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Heading through the tunnel and while listening to the voices discuss me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time didn't seem to be relevant.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter, clearer, colors were more vivid.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Well the end of that tunnel was the most peaceful place, it was beyond my imaginings, pure, serene and loving.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt loved, accepted, happy, secure and sad when I was told I had to go back to my body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     All I saw was that I was terribly unhappy child that was just trying to get through life and tried really hard to be good so that I would be loved.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I became aware that I would live to have children.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew from that moment on that there is life after the body dies. I knew that others do not judge us when we die. I felt unconditional love. That's a big step for a little girl who didn't know what love was.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not afraid to love with all my heart. This is a big deal for me, because I was severely abused in all ways possible as a child.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   At the time of the event, I was afraid to tell anyone what had happened because I thought they would think I was crazy. I was an abused child who had post-traumatic stress disorder so not telling was easier than telling.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Well I had an intuition about people and things. One of my teachers was doing a thesis on ESP and used his classes as test subjects. I showed the highest level of ESP out of all of his two hundred and forty students tested.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I will never forget the feeling of being totally loved and secure, the kindness of those who surrounded me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't tell anyone for about ten years. I told my husband and he believed me totally. Later I shared with others and yes, some of them said I was a 'nutcase'. My husband has always accepted that I have some different connections than most people.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I had never heard of anyone experiencing something like that and I was scared to tell anyone for fear they would label me as insane. So I kept it to myself.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I totally accept that this was a real experience and that I was chosen to know that there is another place that is so incredibly loving, accepting, joyful and perfect that awaits us all after our time on earth or in this dimension is done.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Concerning the last question. Before the experience, I had many out of body experiences in which I was surrounded by beings I assumed were angels during the course of beatings and rapes that I experienced as a child. I would float up to the ceiling and the angels would comfort me, distracting me from what was happening to my body. So this is why I hesitated to tell anyone about my near death experience. I had shameful secrets that I was forced to keep under threat of death of those that I loved. So if this maybe makes my experience questionable to anyone I would understand that entirely. After that year my father was not around anymore to hurt me. So far in my life I haven't had another NDE.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debora_e_nde.html