{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbie_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbie P NDE 4186\/7001","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbie P NDE 4186/7001  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbie P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2008 Debbie P NDE 4186/7001  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 7001  					</p>  					I felt like I woke up and saw my body lying in the pool.  I had a red or blue swimsuit on and I saw bubbles coming out of my nose.  I was floating above my body and was asking myself why I was lying there.  I heard air rushing past me and was looking at my body and wondering why I was down there.  I was not afraid.  It was like I was watching a movie.  After a few minutes, I starting going higher and higher away to the blue and white clouds.  It reminds me of looking out of an airplane.  I did not fly, but was lifted. Suddenly, I felt a jolt like an electrical shock and I was awake.  I tried to tell my mom years later, but she refuses to believe me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/5/1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Drowning    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in the baby pool and another child pushed me under the water and was holding me down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  At the end, I heard screams and saw my mom's legs running through the water.  I woke up in a jolt in my mom's arms.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time I was watching the 'movie.'  It was totally regal and I could hear people screaming and rushing by me.  Sharper senses, colors.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The experience was about me.  The vision was clear, very clear, calm, silent, then back to my body.  It was like I was watching myself die and it was clear and not scary.  It was sharp and colorful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard crisp sounds like air rushing past me.  It sounded calm and serene.  It was a sharper sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was thinking, 'why am I lying down in the pool.'  I saw myself drowning and was not scared one bit.  It reminds me of a factual event.  It was happening, and I did not care.  I started going higher from my body and going into the sky, moving fast, going higher and higher.  I was not afraid.  I was calm and traveling.  I felt great.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was only three.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not a church goer.  I do not believe in judgment or being saved.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am a spiritual person and do not believe Jesus saves people. I do not believe in judgement or a mean God.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was three.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not at that time, but as I grew I did begin to remember and it did change me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     It was like I was moving on. I knew I was dying. I knew I was moving up to another place.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes As I got older it did change everything.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Not really, but no one believed me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can travel outside my body.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My parents, friends, and some mediums.  My parents both think I am nuts and everyone else believes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Just thought I saw myself die and come back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

    Experience Description 4186  					</p>  I was about four years old.  I remember the event very clearly, but have not told my parents.  I am afraid they will think I am not well.  I have seen angels and some type of heavenly body as an adult.  My NDE was in July in 1967, I think.  I was very small and all I can remember is the following:

A boy pushed me under the water in the baby pool at the base and was holding me down.  I remember seeing my body under the water.  I had a blue swimsuit on and saw bubbles coming out of my nose and mouth.  I was just watching up close from above.  I was not scared.  I was calm and thinking to myself, 'why am I under water and why is that boy holding my hand?'  I started floating higher away and then saw my mom run into the water and grab the boy.  It was beautiful, and the colors were very pretty and clear.  I remember zapping instantly into my body violently fast.  It did not hurt, but it was like a shock.  I was weightless and then instantly heavy again.  It was like watching a scary movie, but not getting scared.  It was peaceful and in another dimension that was clear, calm, and quiet.  It was very matter-of-fact.  I remember soft white clouds and looking down at my body and then going so high above in the sky.  It was being on a satellite looking at earth and the round shape of it.  I have always had an interest in NDE and have seen angels that protect my disabled daughter.  It was an awesome and comforting experience to look back at.  I knew I was by myself during the event, but not scared at all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/15/1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Criminal attack  drowning  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A small boy was holding me under the water.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I do not remember the actual pushing down in the water.  The experience was automatic and instant.  I remembered the actual drowning occurring.  I saw it so clear, and can still see it now.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I do not remember the actual pushing down in the water.  The experience was automatic and instant.  I remembered the actual drowning occurring.  I saw it so clear, and can still see it now.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew I was someplace different and experiencing something different.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were brighter and lighter, but soft and not hard to look at.  It was crystal clear and sharp.  I could see in different dimensions.  It is hard to describe.  I was hovering low and then so high I could see the shape of the earth.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear the pool, screaming, water, splashes, and voices.  I only heard a soft air sound like fast air passing by.  It was calming.  I heard nothing else.  When I came back, I was awoken by the loud noises of pool activity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     No, darn it!  I remember being jolted back into consciousness.  It was very bothersome.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very clear light and very sharp. The light was not surrounding me.  It was everywhere.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a different time and dimension.  It was real time and normal. It seemed to get faster toward the end when I was thrown back into my body.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was totally calm.  I was above my body thinking to myself, 'why am I under the water?'  I was not scared.  I was just watching my body drown.  It was very matter-of-fact.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I believed in God and Jesus

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was so young when it happened.  It made a big difference as I got older.  I have become a better person in many ways.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   active Presbyterian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was so young when it happened.  It made a big difference as I got older.  I have become a better person in many ways.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As I get older, I see the experience affecting my beliefs and the way I treat other people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As I got older, I became increasingly more interested in spiritual happenings and read everything I could on near death experiences.  I felt like the subject was drawing me in.  I wanted to read everything I could.  I read all the Raymond Moody books, and saw several movies about NDEs.  I was very into the subject.  When I had my disabled daughter, I began to see her angels and feel their presence in the house.  I saw a heavenly body in my yard walking toward me.  I have seen our old sweet neighbor standing outside her home after the week she died.  I am still very interested in all types of spiritual events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience was awesome and made me a real believer.  I know God is with me.  I have experienced the process of death and I am not scared.  It is a peaceful experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me a long time to tell anyone.  I told my husband.  I just told him about a year ago.  I do not really know what he thinks.  He knows I believe it.  I think he believes me because of our daughter's angels.  I told two friends who thought it was neat.  I want people to not be scared to die.  It is not scary at all.  It gave me peace.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was so little when it happened that I never thought about it as strange.  It was normal, but special.  I started thinking more about it as I got older.  I was a silly heart at age four!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I love it!  I feel so special.  I am still scared to say much to other people.  Many may think I am not well.  I am so interested in other people's NDEs.  I like to share my story with those who have lost someone.  I hope it gives them peace.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would love to talk with others who have had the same experience.  I love the Lord so much!  I am not afraid of death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbie_p_nde.html