{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debi_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Debi M NDE 2138","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debi M NDE 2138  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debi M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						573  Debi M NDE  2138  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was cycling home from work on Friday 13th, 1991, when I got hit by a car and fell off my bike. I must have landed on the back of my head rather hard and was unconscious for some time. I came round when the paramedics prepared me to go in the ambulance. I can remember looking up at some people standing looking down at me.

I lost consciousness again and only vaguely remember arriving at the hospital in Warwick, so they told me. I began to feel the pressure inside my head, it hurt an awful lot, couldn't stay awake for very long at all, although I did try.

I only remember a nurse telling me I should try to eat something, but I was in no fit state to even think about food. All I wanted to do was sleep! I don't think she realized how bad my concussion was at the time. I was brought into a ward and was left there to rest.

The next morning I woke up and the pressure inside my head had built up considerably. I was in so much pain I called for a nurse and more or less begged for someone to take the pressure off somehow, I only just remember thinking to myself how it would be to lie there without that constant pain in my head, it would not matter to me if I died, at least the pain would be gone.

I lost consciousness again and then as though my wish had come true, I felt light in my head.

I opened my eyes but I didn't see the surroundings as I had seen them before. I was floating at some distance and height away from my bed, I could see somebody in that bed, and doctors had come to look at me, looking concerned. I just floated there for some time watching the doctors looking at me. Then it went dark again.

It was some time before I came round again, and the pain was still there.

As time went on, I recovered slowly but steadily. I was in hospital for four or five nights before I was allowed home again. I was still feeling rather weak; I could barely get to the bathroom by myself.

I also discovered that I had lost my sense of smell and taste because of the accident. Once out of hospital I went to join my colleagues for a meal at a pub in Harbury (I found a place to live in that same village some months later). I couldn't really enjoy my food as much as I had hoped, which was another setback for me. But I had to learn to live with that.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 14/12/1991  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I can't be one hundred percent certain that I have been clinically dead, as no doctors have told me about it, it's only from what I have learned about it myself.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The only time I remember being alert and at a good level of consciousness was during the period I was floating above the bed.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was brighter but only because my general surroundings were dark at that time.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was still dazed and had not realized what had really happened while in hospital. It was only after some years when I actually started thinking about it more consciously that I realized what had happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now that I have read and begun to understand what happened I am more convinced that what happened was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is something that unnerved me a bit, realizing that I (may) have been clinically dead, I feel different about myself, less confident about certain things I want to do. I take each day as it comes.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debi_m_nde.html