{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah D NDE 999","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah D NDE 999  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						435  Deborah D NDE  999  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On October 2nd, 2002 I went to the emergency room because I had sharp pain under my right shoulder blade. When I breathed, it was beyond excruciating pain. My x-rays and other tests came back normal. They admitted me anyhow because my blood pressure was 187/127 and they couldn't get it to drop. The next day all I did was sleep. But on the third day fluid filled around my heart and in and around my lungs. I stopped breathing. They moved me to the intensive care unit and put me on full life support. On October 7, 2002, I awoke and ripped out all of the wires and tubes and went into cardiac arrest.


That's when it happened. I went to a place that was the most comfortable, peaceful place that I had ever been to. I was at the lighted side of a tunnel. I saw dead relatives, all glad to see me. When I looked down the tunnel, I saw my body being frantically worked on. At 2:12 pm, I was pronounced dead. At the same time, out of the blinding white light, a voice I assumed to be God asked me,' Are you ready to come home?' I said, 'No!'


I was later told there was a blip on the heart monitor. They shocked my heart and I woke up with the paddles inches off my chest. Within two days, I was off life support and back in a regular room. I fully recovered without any damage from being dead for ten minutes. My doctors called me their miracle patient. They never had anyone survive Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome as severe as mine and make a full recovery.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 7,2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome  Clinical death Was on full life supportI quit breathing due to thirteen gallons of fluid in my upper body

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself laying in the intensive care unit being worked on by the doctors, but I was at the outside of the bright end of a tunnel.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Physically I was unconscious; emotionally I was conscious enough to know where I went and how I came back.  When I returned to my body I was fully alert for three minutes before I went unconscious again and was put back on life support.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt like I was in Heaven for a lot longer than the ten minutes I was dead.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    God's booming yet gentle voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I felt myself float up the tunnel, as I got closer to the bright white light all my torments drifted away.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were standing outside the tunnel waiting for me. They were my brother, my papa Joe, and my uncle Denny. They didn't really speak it was like our minds were linked. I was told they missed me and when they heard I was coming they came to greet me. They each asked about other loved ones.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A light so bright white it was one hundred times brighter than the sun, yet I could see around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Don't specifically recall anything but the bright white light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I learned that when God calls you home you have one time only to say, 'No! I am not ready to come home.' If you possess a special emotional ability, God will let you come back to Earth. But for the rest of your earthly time you have to use that talent to help others.  Everyone's purpose on earth is to help others.  God has many names, he answers all faiths equally.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Quite a few things that were told to me by my relatives actually occurred. So I'd say they were eighty percent accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I got to choose coming back and I felt I still had work to do on earth.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   non-denominational

What is your religion now?      Moderate   non-denominational

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I make it a point to treat everyone like I may never see them again. I treat everyone with respect even people I don't like.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I developed a sixth sense to the emotional needs of others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: Learning it doesn't hurt to die. Worst: not staying in Heaven when I had the chance.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    No one seemed to believe me until stuff I said would happen started happening.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Seeing your dead body laying with a sheet over your face and watching your mother cry is the main reason I came back.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_d_nde.html