{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deborah_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Deborah D Probable NDE 5364","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deborah D Probable NDE 5364  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deborah D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2824 Deborah D Probable NDE 5364  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had terrible teeth. At around age 18 my parents became very good friends with a terrific dentist. My mom started talking to him about how much trouble my teeth had been over the years and she could not find a dentist to work on them. He promised her that he would work on me. I went in to see him because he was a friend and ‘very cool’. I needed so much dental treatment that it took almost a year to complete. He was the very best. I loved him as a friend and he was making my smile look beautiful. 

To enable him to do all of this work on me he used Nitrous Oxide (gas). I LOVED the gas. It was the 70s after all! I would go in as the last patient of the day, he would hook me up to the gas, go finish his last but one patient and I began to have out of body experiences, just floating around the room. When he took me off the gas, I was fine and drove myself home so it was such a wonderful thing. I felt it was very spiritual and there was a purpose in life. I had the gas 3-4 times monthly for about 9 months. Being the friend he was he turned up my gas dosage, knowing how much I enjoyed it. 

On this special occasion, I was there with my sister. He hooked me up, turned the gas up high and went to work on my sister in the next room. I started floating away. I have always felt that I went too far on that occasion, maybe floated away into another realm. Suddenly I ‘remembered something’ that I know I will remember again someday but I did/do NOT remember what it was. Remembering is a big question I have for other NDErs. Does anyone ever remember? Not the experience but that they know they have been there before and recognize exactly what is happening? I knew that I had been there before and recognized that I was dying. Does that make any sense? I understand it but it is hard to explain in writing.

Plain and clear is that I remember I knew exactly what was happening as I had been there before. It was the answer I had been looking for and I knew it.

As soon as I remembered whatever it was, I heard a sound and I knew from the sound that I was dying as I traveled down a tunnel. At first, it was dark as I continued to hear the sound but then I saw a small bright light come closer to me and get brighter. More than bright light, I knew it was GOD. The further I traveled the warmer and happier I felt. I was going towards the bright light. It is where I wanted to be. There were people there on my right side that knew me. It felt like I knew everyone. They were talking to me without words. They told me I did not belong there but I wanted to stay. It was very strange because I do not have any time frame but I knew everything. There were great details as to why I had to return. I remember those details.  Everything is known. We are all one energy. At the same time as they were telling me that I must return, I was up above myself and could see everything without eyes just by ‘knowing’. I could see the back of the dentist’s and my sister’s feet. I heard him as he looked up at his assistant and told her to go check on me. I could see her walk down the hall and into the room. She touched my arm and asked how I was doing. As soon as she touched me, I returned into my body. I grabbed her almost throwing her over me. She pulled off the gas as I was gasping for air. I know that I died. I was there. 

She asked me what happened and I just said I went way too far. She laughed and said ‘yeah that happens’. I did not say anything about what I had experienced. The dentist came in and worked on me with NO gas and I went home and called my boyfriend. I know I died. I talked to him for hours trying to explain what had happened. I remembered something that I was not supposed to remember. I had NEVER heard of anything like this, ever, so I did not tell anyone else. They would think I was crazy! I thought it was crazy but I have NO doubt that I died and was sent back. Most important to me, is that I knew exactly what was happening because I had been there before.

It was many years later that I saw a show with Leonard Nimoy about NDEs. I was totally thrilled to see that other people had experienced the same thing. I was not crazy. I have lived with this for around 35 years and is as true to me today as if it happened yesterday. It was life changing. There is a GOD. The biggest, brightest, warmest and most loving light of shining golden energy! After you die, you become part of that energy. Everything is connected and everything is known. Without words, we know and without ears, we can hear. There is no need for anything because we are everything. 

Crazy stuff.  I could go on and on about it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  around 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    I believe that I overdosed & stopped breathing. I went tooo far....  Other I was at the dentist having work done while on nitrous oxide  I know that I died and then returned but there was nobody there to witness that.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was always alert and conscious.  As described above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always alert and conscious. I knew exactly what was happening. I understood why I had to go back. They told me it was not my time. It would not make any sense for my dentist to walk into the room and find me dead in his chair. It would ruin lives. My family would be heartbroken. I had a life with my boyfriend. All of these things were spoken in great detail without words. I had no idea of time passing but everything was very clear and in great detail. Everything is known there is no need to be afraid. I fully understood. But truly wanted to stay as I knew exactly where I was. I know that the spirits’ made the dentist send in the assistant to bring me back. It was not my time. It changed my life. No gas since then. I know that I will remember what it was that I experienced again someday and hopefully, that day is long way off!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no feeling of space or time. Everything is known. Time was not an issue.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see, feel and hear everything without eyes or ears but all knowing. I could see without using my eyes. I could see the dentist’s back while working on my sister the others that were with me. I would say now that we were all one, sharing energy with the light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just before I knew what was happening I heard a sharp noise. I immediately remembered that is what happens when I am dying. The noise reminded me of a hand buzzer trick where you would wind up a small toy then shake someone's hand and a loud buzzer would go off, scaring them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I traveled in a tunnel toward the light of God or power, an amazing energy.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was many. We were all one at the same time. They told me in detail that it was not time for me and I understood everything without words. I saw them but I did not need my eyes to see. Everything is known so there is no need.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I am very certain that I saw a very bright, warm and loving light. I was moving towards that light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt the overwhelming love of, and from the light. It was not around me, it was in the distance but I wanted to join that light. It was my destination but I was stopped and told it was not time for me yet.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not so much a review but more of an understanding that I needed to go back. The thing that has remained with me always is that I remembered being there before and I knew I wanted to go back to the light.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This awareness began when I first started ‘floating’. I was leaving my body in my dreams.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was seeking spiritual answers at that time

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It changed my life. It has been about 35 years now and I have grown, learned and changed so much over the years. I have grown in faith. I am not sure if the NDE started my gifts but it greatly enhanced them. I feel that over time I have learned so much that I could not possibly have known back then. It gave me clearer understanding as to who and what our relationship to the heavens means. It is just right here with us, we just do not see or hear it but there are signs everywhere when you take the time to look.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   After my NDE I now have a very deep spiritual relationship with a Loving GOD.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It changed my life. It has been about 35 years now and I have grown, learned and changed so much over the years. I have grown in faith. I am not sure if the NDE started my gifts but it greatly enhanced them. I feel that over time I have learned so much that I could not possibly have known back then. It gave me clearer understanding as to who and what our relationship to the heavens means. It is just right here with us, we just do not see or hear it but there are signs everywhere when you take the time to look.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I had died and that I was seeing God. That is special.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am a sensitive person. I feel things in ways that most people do not and tend to shy away from crowds where I pick up negative energies. I love being with family and friends but need more alone time than most people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Things I experienced were not of this realm. It is hard to describe the indescribable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have feelings about things. I dream. I see people. I know things. I cannot explain but I just know.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately told my boyfriend at the time but did not speak about it or tell anyone else for about 15 years. This was after I started hearing and reading that it had happened to other people. It is not something I tell everyone. Sometimes I will tell someone when I sense the need to tell them about a feeling I have. It sounds crazy but I know what I know. I just know things.  I am not out to convince anyone of anything. I can only share my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was extremely real. I had been seeking answers as to whether there was a God. I found a way to do this with gas, which enabled me to leave my body. I was seeking more spiritual knowledge by floating out of my body. I knew there was more than just this space we call home.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was so real. I later became a radiation therapist treating cancer patients. I was able to have a positive impact in the knowledge that they will not be alone when they leave us here. This is not the end only the beginning. I did not do this by telling them about my experience but I have great faith that my NDE was very, very real. I have no doubt. I was able to be a support to family and friends with a firm assurance that loved ones will always be with us. One of the things I learned in X-ray school is that energy cannot be destroyed it can only be changed. The energy that created the bright light was the energy that lights our lives and fills us with love in our hearts.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for asking! It has been a strange sharing my experience here. I feel I have relived it by writing it all down. I do know that I died and came back. I was not supposed to go; I just floated away too far. It was to the ultimate place. When the dentist hooked me up to the gas, it was a fun thing. It took me to places that I had only visited in my dreams. I now know that I very well could have stopped breathing. The gas had easily been turned up four notches too high. I had never heard of this kind of thing ever happening to anyone else so I did not know what it was. I just knew that I died, came back and that it was not the first time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deborah_d_probable_nde.html