{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbie_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbie E NDE 3420","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbie E NDE 3420  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbie E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1412 Debbie E NDE 3420  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was out drinking with my ex-boyfriend and we were driving in his car after we left the bar. An argument took place during a heated discussion. (Three years later, I still can't remember what we were arguing about!)

After this took place, I found myself in a dark tunnel with a bright light gradually coming toward me. I then saw my mother who passed away in the year 2000. She was in front of the light. We were communicating through each other's minds, not verbally. We can understand one another I remember, but I don't have any memory of what was said. I just remember me feeling a floating sensation, not being in my physical body. I didn't like the look my mother had; it was a look of fear. I got that same look when she was alive at times; she had worry and disappointment in her eyes. She tilted her head down and kept her eyes staring straight in line with mine.

When I woke up, I was never dead. I was in a coma for three weeks with a crushed skull, brain injury, tracheotomy and a fractured fifth vertebra. The fracture was one centimeter from cutting into my spine that would have paralyzed me from the neck down. Four months in the hospital, four surgeries and physical therapy. I went to Illinois to stay with my father for a month.

The doctors told my father that I would never be the same; they all said I would be retarded. My dad then got guardianship over me and I recovered back a hundred percent mentally over a period of time. Physically you wouldn't see any flaws. I have a dent the size of my hand on the left side of my head, only it is not noticeable. I have a tracheotomy scar, scar in my stomach from the feeding tube and once right handed, now left. A quarter size piece of the fine motor-skills part of my brain had to be removed. It effected my writing, eating with utensils and typing. I had to train myself to do all of those things with my left hand.

My ex told the police that I was so mad that I jumped out of the moving car (Corvette) going forty mph. They couldn't find proof after investigation that it was attempted suicide. His insurance wouldn't cover my medical expenses and I was three weeks shy on my new job collecting any medical benefits. It cost me to file Chapter Seven Bankruptcy with just under one million dollars that I owed.

After I moved back to Dallas, Texas, I got my job back and moved in with my ex - I started piecing together that he was cheating on me, that the argument the night of the accident was about that. I still don't know how I ended up where I did, but I think he had something to do with it. A doctor interviewed me after the accident and reported I wasn't suicidal. The seating in a Corvette sits so low, you have to step up and then out of the car. I was heavily intoxicated at the time, so I know there was foul play.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/23/2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the bar we were at, Humperdink's.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The three weeks I was in a coma, my NDE seemed only like minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision is fine, but when I drive now traffic to my right seems they are closer than they really are.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Dark tunnel with a bright light and my mother slowly moving toward me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt like I did something wrong where the afterlife had turned me away, that look my mom gave me and always trying to make sense of the situation. Given a second chance at life, I fear I'll mess things up.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm a lot more personable and I'm closer with my family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The disappointment in my mother's eyes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my doctors, nurses and my family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbie_e_nde.html