{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1deanne_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Deanne W Probable NDE 8099","mylang":"de"}
          	        Deanne W Probable NDE 8099  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Deanne W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4220 Deanne W Probable NDE 8099  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I awoke the morning of Friday, October 23, 2015, and gathered clothing to take a shower.  I remember being short of breath and making my way to my husband's side of our bed to pick up the landline and call my husband.  As I sat on the edge of the bed, I felt myself begin to slide off the bed.  I became unconscious before my body hit the floor.  My dog began barking and alerting my mother who was visiting from Tennessee.  If she had not been there, I wouldn't be here.  I was in and out of consciousness and had no sense of my breathing, my body or any pain.  I managed to give my mother my husband's cell phone number.  Another time that I was conscious, my mother told me she had called 911 and help was on the way.  I thought to ask her to unlock the front door so the emergency medical technicians (EMTs) wouldn't have to break it down.  The next thing I remember was the EMT asking where I wanted to be taken.  I was able to answer him.  After that, I lost five entire days.  My next memory would be waking in ICU, intubated, and with my nose packed and my hands tied to my hospital bed.  The day my breathing tube was removed, I was able to tell my son and husband what I remembered. 
 
 I was in complete darkness.  There was a man dressed in white standing next to me on my right side.  At the end of the darkness was a circle of light.  In the light were people milling around.  They seemed to being going on about their lives as if nothing was wrong.  It reminded me of when my mother would leave the hallway light on at night so my sisters and I wouldn't be afraid to go to sleep.  This light was much brighter and intense. 
 
 As I tried to focus on the man standing over me, his face began to become clearer.  I had a strange feeling of not so much fear, as despair.  As his face began to come into focus, I believed I had been kidnapped by a Klingon (Star Trek character), I was on a spaceship, and they were taking me far away from my family.  I remember my heart being so heavy with sadness as if I had lost someone close and dear to me.  The thought of never seeing my husband, children and grandchildren was almost too much for me to bear. 
 
 As my despair grew, the man placed his hand on my right arm.  His face began to become even clearer.  He had long, stringy brown hair and the blackest eyes I have ever seen.  I could feel the calm.  He spoke to me but I don't remember his mouth moving.  I could hear him say 'You have to fight, Deanne.  We'll take care of you.' 
 
 On December 19, 2015, I made my way out of bed to the kitchen table to eat the lunch my husband had prepared.  On the television was a documentary titled 'Jesus, The Lost Forty Days'.  The image of Jesus was a 3-D reproduction taken from the marks on the Shroud of Turin.  It turned out that Jesus Christ was the person I perceived as my Klingon.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 23, 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Massive Bilateral Pulmonary Embolisms due to knee replacement surgery five weeks earlier.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clear.  I normally wear prescription glasses but could see clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was normal.  The only thing I heard was Jesus.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was in complete darkness.  I couldn't see anything except Jesus standing next to me, and a bright light at the end of the tunnel with people milling around.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     See Experience

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright light at the end of the darkness.  I remember as a child my mother leaving the hallway light on when I went to bed.  This reminded me of that, except it was brighter.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The only emotion I felt was an indescribable deep despair that I would not be able to be able to see my husband, my children or grandchildren again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I remember my heart being so heavy with sadness as if I had lost someone close and dear to me.  The thought of never seeing my husband, children and grandchildren was almost too much for me to bear.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have become more religious.  I was raised Southern Baptist but I don't lean towards the teaching of any specific religion.  I believe all that is important if believing in a higher being and being accepting of others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was raised to believe in Jesus Christ.  I was baptized when I was a young girl.  I have always believed and what I experienced was consistent with what I grew up believing.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My values and beliefs have changed.  I am having a difficult time returning to what was normal before my experience.  I'm in the processes of finding what my new normal is.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   As I tried to focus on the man standing next to me, his face began to become clearer.  I had a strange feeling of not so much fear as despair.  As his face began to come into focus, I believed a Klingon had kidnapped me.  I would realize later that the man was Jesus Christ.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I was in complete darkness.  There was a man dressed in white standing next to me on my right side.  I would realize, when watching a television documentary, 'Jesus, The Lost Forty Days, over a month later, that the man was not a Klingon but was Jesus Christ.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Jesus Christ was standing next to me.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I believe I was at the Gate of Heaven.  I believe the light at the end of the tunnel was the entrance into Heaven.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     During my experience, I did encounter the awareness of how much I loved my family.  I was aware of how much I would miss them.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have always believed in God and Heaven.  Now I know they are real.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It has become hard for me to be as social as I was before this experience.  I feel my safe zone is at home with my husband.  In the beginning, I had little patience with people who were concerned about everyday problems.  Normal everyday issues aren't as important to me as they were before.  I don't have a grip on what normal is to me any longer.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was very difficult to explain because I didn't realize what had happened until more than a month later.  When I told my son and husband about being kidnapped by a Klingon the look on their faces was indescribable.  My husband never left me alone again after that.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I can remember this experience as if it happened yesterday.  I can still see and feel the experience in detail.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience right away with my husband and son and several friends who had come to visit me.  My husband was the first person I told.  My son and daughter-in-law were next.  My son's was response was 'He is real'.  My friends were next.  I am careful with whom I share my experience.  I feel it's a special experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My experience was very real to me. My experience became even more real to me after I realized I had been in the presence of Jesus Christ.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe the experience was definitely real.  I can still see and feel the experience as if it happened yesterday.  I've never doubted what I experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not at this time      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1deanne_w_probable_nde.html