{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbie_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbie NDE 4253","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbie NDE 4253  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2081 Debbie NDE 4253  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was staying at a hotel in Florida on holiday with my family. I was standing at the poolside looking down into the deep water and marveling at it. A deep end safety rope was right beside me. I don't know why but I leaned further over in, what felt to me like, a trance. The next thing I knew, I was in the water looking up at the rope. I couldn't swim. I was confused as to why I couldn't make my hand grab the rope to pull myself out of the water when all of a sudden I was looking at my body floating in the water. I looked limp and my hair was floating around my head. My eyes were open and I had a look of frozen shock on my face. 

I wasn't afraid at the scene but instead felt an overwhelming feeling of peace and some curiosity. I felt something and looked up beyond the rope. That's when I saw a fuzzy white circle of white light in the distance. It wasn't the sun because I remember seeing that as well. I ‘thought’ at the light ‘Oh no not yet please! I like this one and I’m not ready yet’. At the same time, I felt as though I knew everything I had ever wanted to know, and more, even at that very young age. I knew that whatever happened to me in this life it would all be fine. It was all just life experiences, good and bad. The feeling of complete unconditional love was so very strong I almost didn't want to leave it, but I knew I would be with it again; I belonged with it. I chose to go back to my body and suddenly everything went black. 

The next thing I remember was lying on the edge of the pool with people yelling, I didn't know why. Then the water came rushing out of my lungs. It was very hard and painful to breathe, but I did it. That whole day I couldn't stop crying, not because of the experience but because no one would listen to me and I no longer felt that loving connection. I am not afraid to die but I still don't want to and I know there is a reason for me being here. I am just not sure what that is. It is nice that finally someone somewhere is listening to me. Thank you for letting me share my experience with you without judgment.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Possible drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized that I was out of my body I was happy and even though the water engulfed me, I didn't need to breath to be okay.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed I was under the water for a while but it was only a few minutes before my step dad pulled me out. I was in awe of my form and the love and knowledge I was freely given.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t need to hear the way we do here on earth. I was connected to everything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I was communicating but it was through thought and not by using my voice.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just the fact that the water the air the earth was not a concern to me in that from

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness connection, calmness and freedom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I have had a lot of experiences with different religions. My mother said she wanted us to make up our own minds about it, but I know it makes no difference. We are loved regardless.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have had a lot of experiences with different religions. My mother said she wanted us to make up our own minds about it, but I know it makes no difference. We are loved regardless.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is no real reason to worry or fear anything. We are all connected to each other and all things. It will all be okay and we are all loved unconditionally.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was young and just forming my relationships with, and understanding of, the world around me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     For a while I kept having dreams of floating above myself when I slept. At least I tell myself they were dreams but sometimes I’m not so sure. This stopped at about age ten.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That even though this life is hard compared to the other side I want to live it with all of my being.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I had enough breath to speak. My mom thought I was delusional and said if I didn't stop crying and talking nonsense then she would ship me off to the hospital. I cried harder.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real and I was angry with my parents for not listening long enough to even let me vent my experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real. Too many others who have actually flat lined experienced much the same as I have and I was too young to know about it when it happened to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have always had a feeling that this world is rare and we are here to experience its beauty and specialness.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbie_nde.html