{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbie B NDE 5134","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbie B NDE 5134  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2672 Debbie B NDE 5134  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In my first experience, I remember opening my eyes and seeing my husband standing a distance from me. Suddenly I had the sensation of falling. I thought I was hollering 'No!' But, my husband said I made no sound. I was met by my mother who had passed two years earlier. From a distance, I saw family members that had also passed. My mother told me to come with her. We walked down this long sandy path. When I saw a clearing, I heard a sound from behind me that made me stop in my tracks. I was told that it was not my time yet - that my husband and I had a lot to do and that many people would be counting on us. I then woke up in the intensive care unit.

The other time it happened to me was the seventh cardiac arrest I had. This time I had an out of body experience. I found myself going back to my house where the doctor had told my husband and sons to go and rest until morning. I touched each of my sons on the cheek as they were sleeping. When I went to kiss my husband, the phone rang. It was 5:02 am. Suddenly I woke up back in my hospital room with the doctor telling me in my ear that he was putting in a temporary pace maker and medical evacuating me to another hospital. I was in critical condition and not expected to make it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11-03-2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack  had apparent mild heart attack within 4 to six month period prior and did not know-went to cardiologist for palpitation did not do any tests before collapse  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 7 minutes first time and almost 7 second-cardiac arrest 7 times within a9 hour period  I have a heart condition called 'QT Interval Prolongation'. I now have a defibrillator. However, it has not gone off at all, and I have just recently had it replaced. Oddly, I have had a dream of being taken up in a ship, the device being removed and then me being brought back. I've been assured that I will be fine without it. My husband and I are supposed to lead many young people to safety when the chaos gets really bad. What began this year in the Middle East has something to do with it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I had blacked out that morning from my heart just wiggling and not beating properly. I had hit my head on the tile floor in bathroom and had a huge hematoma and a bad concussion. I only remember certain events that made me become very alert, such as going into cardiac arrest. I have had folks try to tell me that my experience was just a dream or that it was somehow scientifically explainable. But I know what I saw and what I heard, and I am positive that what I experienced was real. I saw chaos, smoke, fire, and destruction all around. When the eruption in the Middle East started this year, I knew that it had begun. I know that the tribulation began last year and the quickening has begun.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm confused as to how I understood what I heard so easily, yet I can only describe it as a very ominous vibration that made me want to drop to my knees out of respect.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A spiral - and when I saw the Norway spiral [12/2009], the first thing I said was 'HOME.'

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Already explained.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright and warm.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I have been informed that we will stay here and help Earth start again-this is HOME

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria. I did not want to come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was only told that I wasn't finished yet. But the experience did make me do a lot of soul searching and changing of things that I felt might not be good when I returned to him.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     So far, very much so.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Methodist-but not bible toter-not been in many years

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     In that I know there is a Higher Power and that there is only one religion, one history, and one God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same-have done much research and believe that Greek mythology-mayan-hopi-bible are all intergrated to be a whole of our past-question separation of each as a means to keep us in the DARK up until now.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     In that I know there is a Higher Power and that there is only one religion, one history, and one God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was given a glimpse of future and foresaw a lot of death and destruction all around, but I felt safe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Much better with all relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When told it was not my time, it was not in language. It was a vibration, and I knew that it was a most holy one, because I was instructed not to turn and look at him. I was to just return because I was not finished. I was shown some visions of future events that were not good for humanity.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I predict things before they occur - not so much WHAT it will be, but that SOMETHING is going to occur.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Probably six months later, with my husband. I needed to talk about it; I felt like I was going crazy. I didn't say a lot to him to begin with, but as I began to tell him about things I was seeing before they happened, he began to believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real. There were too many things about it that rocked me, such as my mother telling me that I had to let go of her death and live for myself now. This had been was a problem for me before my experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I've done seven-plus years of research and I know it is real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbie_b_nde.html