{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbie_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbie Probable NDE 4146","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbie Probable NDE 4146  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbie Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2031 Debbie Probable NDE 4146  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was walking around the baby pool. A young boy grabbed me and pushed me under the water. I almost instantly started floating above my body. I saw myself in an aqua one-piece swimsuit lying in the pool floor. I was not scared and remembered wondering how I could be in both places at the same time. I was watching a movie of myself. I was right above my body and began to float higher and higher into the sky. I was not scared, but confused. It was so pretty. I was hovering in a beautiful blue sky and white clouds. It was silent. I was going higher and higher. I began to see my mom jump into the pool and pick me up. Everyone was running to me. The last thing I remember was waking up in my mom's arms in the pool office. It was in slow, slow motion. I didn't remember any of this until about fifteen years ago. I can still see the entire experience now. It was silent and peaceful. It sounded like an air tunnel and I saw no one. I do remember seeing the boy holding my hand. I asked my mom why he was holding my hand. My mom said he was holding my arm down to keep me under the water. I thought the boy was just holding my hand.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/15/1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Child held me under water for several minutes  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was about four, and an older child pushed me down into the baby pool. I was under water for several minutes. I was confused about what was happening because I was floating above my body and started going higher and higher. My mom saved my life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I only remember the hovering and all the detail during the drowning and my mom saving me. I do not remember any other detail. I remember the beginning of the drowning. I just woke up and was beside; above myself, I was very close to myself. I began to float higher and higher.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clear and it seemed like I could see miles and miles away. I saw pretty colors that were sharp and white light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It sounded like I was in a vacuum. I could hear air rushing around me. I heard nothing else.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything in the sky was light blue. It was a pure white light that was outlines around all of the area I saw.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Many levels or demensions.  it was like seeing everything at once.  The higher I went the less I saw my body.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was not afraid. I was confused about seeing myself, but I just accepted it. I thought it was pretty. It was matter of fact.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a Christian and it made me believe even more.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a Christian and it made me believe even more.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was young when it happened and thought it might be a dream. It was hard to believe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see angels and feel their presence. I have seen heavenly figures. I saw a angel that was seven feet tall. There was no face and just a body in a robe. The angels are my autistic child's guardian angels. I do not feel them as much as I did. I saw my neighbor outside in her yard - Bertie was dead about a week.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing myself under the water and floating was cool. I knew I was going away and did not care. The memory of the boy holding me down was meaningful. I am not scared to die like a lot of people are.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband several years ago when we started feeling, seeing, angels. He believes me and supports me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was so small and cannot remember.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have had several experiences with heaven. I love the knowledge that I am not scared to die and I look at life in a different way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish I could remember more and could speak to others who have had the same type of experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbie_probable_nde.html