{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1debbi_er_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Debbi ER Probable NDE 7500","mylang":"de"}
          	        Debbi ER Probable NDE 7500  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Debbi ER Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3829 Debbi ER Probable NDE 7500  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember I had felt very weak and unable to walk. I had fallen several times and so I had been put onto the front room sofa outside of my parent's bedroom to sleep. I felt very hot and tried to wake up but couldn't.  

I saw myself as a wispy cloud the size of my body, rising from my physical self. I began to float upwards towards the ceiling of my living room.  As I came to the top of the room, I heard a voice behind me.  Standing in my living room was a strange looking man, an Indian master-type gentleman with a turban on.  He was saying, 'No, Debbi it is not your time to go. You must stay here.' I looked down on the sofa and saw me on the sofa, lifeless in appearance.  I found myself having a pulled-back-into-my-body type sensation. He said, 'I am your angel.  My name is Babba Ji.  I have always been with you and will always be with you.  I will get you some help. Look at the elephants marching around the room. Just watch them while I get you help.' 

I looked and marching around the ceiling were elephants.  They were cartoon elephants like the ones on parade in the movie 'Dumbo'. I remember the first time I saw the Disney cartoon Dumbo I thought that's what I saw when I saw the angel. I remember my mother shortly afterward, not sure how long, came out and began screaming to my father to come and take me to the hospital. I remember my father becoming upset, he scooped up my body, and I blacked out again.  

Later, as a 35 year old, I had been visiting a friend in California and was invited to go to a talk from an 'Indian Guru Master.'  When I arrived at the woman's house I was to ride with, I saw a picture of my angel. I couldn't believe it and asked her who was it? When did he live? She said she had been very sick with scarlet fever.  He came to her and had dancing elephants for her to watch going around the room. She said his name was Babba Ji. I said this is unbelievable because that is what had happened to me. She said the man we are going to see tonight is Babba Ji's student's student. He had lived in 1880 and as a gift; she gave me the picture of him that I have framed in my home.  

I don't remember anything before this event. I know I have heard voices all my life that steer me in the right direction. The voices ask me to help people that need help, have saved people's lives, and helped me with daily life problems. I remember thinking as a child that I have parents but God was my true parent.  I have always been intuitive, many times hearing people's thoughts and smelling spirits of family members.  I could hear the voice of God or angels and this has created many adventures.  These adventures are not normal for this earth as a result in my personal life and work environment as a nurse. I call them 'God jobs' and hear the voice at times that directs me how to help my patients and others.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1958

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness.    Other I am unsure, as I was a child. I had a very high fever and had been diagnosed with Rheumatic Fever when I had gotten to the hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The colors of the elephants were so vivid and they were so animated I remember being mesmerized by them.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the vision of my angel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was very ill and unable to move or get up immediately prior to this. I remember trying to get up and communicate but couldn't.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not sense or remember any hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above narrative.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was around the man in the room.  A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt as though I had been groggy initially then happy and feeling very loved and seeing a light around Babba Ji.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   Babba Ji said I needed to return that it was not my time to leave and when he spoke I was sucked back into my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     See above.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I attend Unity Church of Christianity

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a lot of faith and always have, I have felt most at home in churches and singing religious songs and reading bible stories gave me much joy as a child.  I knew that there was something out there that can just appear and begin speaking to me and look after me; that I am not alone.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   He was small in stature but having a beautiful feeling about him. It was a feeling of peace. His smile was a sweet as Santa's to me. I felt as if yes I do know him. My friend and felt a kinship to him. Although the turban seemed a little strange, I believed him and felt he loved me as my father loved me. He did appear as a real person but with those characterizations listed.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Babba Ji from India. I think he was an Indian Master and teacher in his incarnation.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I was a five year old at the time and so I do not actually know the answer to that.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that connection via the angel,guide whatever you would call him.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No My husband accepts me and loves me even though strange things sometimes happen to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always had that my whole life. I do not have memory prior to this experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My sister, best friend and husband mainly.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     When I had met the girl in California who described the same thing that sealed it for me. I knew I was not hallucinating whenever I have seen 'him'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The most recent India teacher in Babba Ji's lineage appeared to me once as a light being and asked me to come to see him and to be ready because he will be seeing me soon. He was also very loving and kind feeling. Shortly after, a man I have never seen came to see me at my church and he said during his meditation he was told to come and see me and invite me to go with him to a retreat in upstate New York. I did and when I met him it was the vision of the man I had seen in my bedroom the night I had the experience. I spent about a week at a retreat with him and his energy was incredible. I almost fell when I saw him because of the connection and I feel it was because of Babba Ji that he was sent to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debbi_er_probable_nde.html