{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dean_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Dean B NDE 8346","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dean B NDE 8346  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dean B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4380 Dean B NDE 8346  					  				  			      			  			  				Edited for clarity by Judy Shea 12 Aug 2017.

Experience Description     

        May 10, 2003

    I packed up the car to go to work for the next three months in Bavaria. I was driving down highway D1 at a speed of 130km/per hour. It started to rain. The surface of highway changed from concrete panels to asphalt until I got to Prague. The car started hydroplaning from the water on the highway. At 115km/per hour the back of car kept bouncing to the right. I was in fifth gear, so I pushed hard on the clutch and the brakes in the same time. It didn't help much. I gripped the wheel firmly with both hands and then I looked up and screamed, because I was heading right toward the center barrier. I was screaming, pushing the pedals, turning the wheel and still it was coming closer, like a big wall that I couldn't escape.     

    I saw the first flash of light, two to three meters before the center barrier—flashes as if somebody was taking pictures of me. Then came a recent memory, and then another flash of memory. It was going backwards in time towards the past. I saw all these memories like when I had good times and felt lucky in love. Then I saw when I was back in kindergarten. I saw all my friends, family members, and scenes of nature. There were about fifteen to twenty flashes, and with one of the last flashes I saw somebody standing above me while I was in a stroller.     

    Then I was in a tunnel. I was consumed by the darkness all around me. I felt like I was in a bathtub full of water with a sweet strawberry smell. It was a very nice feeling of total relief and release, like when you are about to get into a nice full bath.    

    Then I saw a sharp, white light in the distance. It was very sharp but it didn't blind me and my eyes didn't hurt from it. In the center of the light there were myriad glittering rainbow colors. It was like the white xenon light on a mobile phone when you are taking pictures. Suddenly, I felt a strong push away from this white light and all the beautiful feelings and thoughts disappeared into nowhere. I was very disappointed by this.    

    I opened my eyes and was sitting in the car in the opposite direction on the highway. Cars were passing by me. They were trying to avoid the chain of cars crashing.    

    It was a strange feeling. I released myself from the safety belt and got out of the car. I was wet and probably in shock. I tried to pick up parts of my car which were on the side of the highway. My car was a 1993 Honda Civic hatchback. If it had been another brand of car, my legs would be gone.     

    Later on nothing really happen to me, except I couldn't fall asleep for half a year and my hair got grayer. And when it rains, I drive more safely and more slowly. If anyone is interested, I tell them the story and reassure that there is no need to be afraid of death. I tell them that death is not an end, only another dimension and with only good qualities. A place where experiences happen and time doesn't matter.             

        
At the time of your experience was there an associated life-threatening event?  Yes        

    Was the experience difficult to express in words?    Yes, it was an unforgettable experience.        
    
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?    All the time        

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?    More consciousness and alertness than normal.         
    
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything        

Did you see or hear any earthly events that were occurring during a time that your consciousness / awareness was apart from your physical / earthly body?  No        

What emotions did you feel during the experience?    Incredible release and strawberry smell        

    Did you pass into or through a tunnel?    Yes. From a flash of light, I went through  a tunnel into the Darkness where at the end was white light with rainbow center.        
    
    Did you see an Unearthly light?    Yes. I saw white, bright light but it wasn't blinding. It was like white xenon with a changing rainbow in the middle        
    
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?    No        

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?    No        

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?    No        

    Did you become aware of past events in your life during your experience?  YES. It was a  flash like from camera and I saw  memories from past        
    
    Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?    A clearly mystical or unearthly realm. I was relaxed with the view into white, xenon light which was changing colors of rainbow        
    
Did time seem to speed up or slow down?    Everything seemed to be happening at once and time stopped or lost all meaning        

    Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?    Everything about the universe. I was overwhelmed, surprised and reconciled with destiny        
    
    Did you reach a Boundary or limiting physical structure?    I am not sure. I didn't feel my body; I felt only my soul.
    
Did you come to a border or point of no return?    I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross I was sent back against my will        

    Did scenes from the future come to you?    No.        

    During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness suggesting that there either is (or is not) continued existence after earthly life (“life after death”)?  Yes. There was no life after death, only thought after life.        
    
During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that God or a supreme being either does (or does not) exist?  No        

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that you either did (or did not) exist prior to this lifetime?  No        

    During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness either does (or does not) exist?  YES, all the flashes from the past were connected and deep in my heart and  soul.        
    
During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s meaning or purpose?  No        

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s difficulties, challenges, or hardships?  No        

    During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding love?  Yes. I felt love for all my past loves,  family members and the animals which had died.        
    
During your experience, did you encounter any other specific information / awareness that you have not shared in other questions that is relevant to living our earthly lives?  No        

Did you have a sense of knowing Special knowledge or purpose?  No        

    What occurred during your experience included:  Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience. 
    
    How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?           I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.         
    
    My experience directly resulted in:  Moderate changes in my life        
    
    Did you have any changes in your values or beliefs after the experience that occurred as a result of the experience?  Yes, I live every day as if it were my last.        
    
    Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?    Yes, I have lively dreams that come through in sometimes. For example,  I will have a detailed dream about a place and in a few months, I am there. I know where all the things are before I come. It's like I have been there before. It all started after the accident. If I had a dream that I had accident or something bad happen to me before I go on a journey, I don't go. Even after all these years,  I still believe in my dreams. I have the dreams once or twice a week and  wake up  wet from  sweating.        
    
    Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes, whoever is interested I tell the story and to let them know not to be afraid of death.        
    
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    NO        

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?    Experience was definitely real        

What do you believe about the reality of your experience at the current time:  Experience was definitely real        

Have your relationships changed specifically as a result of your experience?  Yes

Have your religious beliefs/spiritual practices changed specifically as a result of your experience?  No        

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No        

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?    Yes                                 			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dean_b_nde.html