{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dean_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Dean T NDE 46","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dean T NDE 46  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dean T NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1494 Dean T NDE 46  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On March 13, 1996 at three in the afternoon, I got very sick and knew I needed help. I called my brother and he came over immediately. He took me to the Stateline emergency room, where I had my first major heart attack. This part in the very beginning was really strange, I did not feel as though I was going to die. As I was being transported via ambulance to hospital, I remember stopping and being defibrillated twice, and then I was in emergency room of Barton hospital in South Lake Tahoe. I was admitted with ninety-nine percent closure of a vein from a blood clot. I was defibrillated in excess of twenty-eight times.

I was watching everything from above the room. The only time I was in my body was after the defibrillator, so very painful for a moment or two, and then I would leave again. I heard all of the conversation in the room. I saw my dead relatives. After being released, I confirmed statements made by some of the personnel in the emergency room. They were amazed, to say the least. Some conversations I overheard about me were later asked to be forgotten due to the nature of the comments. After eleven hours I was so tired I wanted rest, so when they paralyzed me I slept for about what I thought was an hour, even though my eyes were taped I saw everything that was going on.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 13, 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         I was having heart attacks. Before I was given the drug to paralyze me. The doctors had worked on me for eleven hours. During this process of installing a breathing tube, they cut my trachea causing aspirated pneumonia, and a temperature of 107.9. I left my body and watched as they placed bags of ice all over me. I was on a nitrogen blanket and they still had to pour ice on me to bring my temperature down. I watched the whole thing from above.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was not aware of my form; however the concern I felt for the person below was also very real.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As alert as I'm now, it was very real. I was on total life support for four days.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sounds I heard as I left were very loud, they filled my every thought.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I spent a great deal of time in the tunnel, each time I died I was sent to the tunnel. Several times, I was spoken to by the being of light. He was with my father, like he or she, I don't know which, seemed to have their arm around my father. Each time someone I knew would say, 'Dean, you're going back honey.' We would hear the defibrillator warm up and wham I was back in great pain as I slammed into my body after the shock.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw all my dead relatives. I was told the reason I had to come back was to get in touch with others like myself. The year 2000 is going to be very interesting. Be prepared, I'm afraid to tell what I know.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I could in no way with my limited abilities, describe it to you, I have never seen or felt anything like it. (See answers above too.)

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I knew so many people loved me and were praying that I would live, I felt a new love like I have never known.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew I was not going to die, no matter what. That was a great relief.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything happened as if it was real then, no life review, just explanation about what was happening to me. And why I had to come back.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My life since March 13 has been a life I am proud of. I have spoken to so many people who have had a demon, somehow relating my experience to them helps them.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had no choice, everyone knew I was coming back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My love for life has never been as strong as it is now. I see people now totally different than before, I have compassion I never knew I had.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   This happened in 1996, since then, as each year passes, it is easier to talk about but for the first year I was a basket case. The emotions just jump out of me. The feeling I had when I met my departed father was the most beautiful thing I have ever felt. I got to know the love of my father something I had been denied since I was three.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     But I'm afraid to talk about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seriously there was no division. I say this is the most wonderful experience, one you have to die for.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with people that have needed me. They seem to gain some kind of peace within after talking to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Twice I had a dream about being defibrillated and found myself on the floor, knocked completely out of bed.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time, thank you from the bottom of my heart for allowing me to share.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dean_t_nde.html