{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dawn_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Dawn W NDE 5132","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dawn W NDE 5132  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dawn W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2669 Dawn W NDE 5132  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Peoples' voices where comforting me as I bled to death in the road. The last sound I remember was a helicopter overhead. 

Suddenly, I was in a dark warm breezy place.  It was full of stars. Voices where speaking, though not out of their mouths.  The people looked like film negatives and I know they were failing somehow. There was a debate with another entity about my fate.  I couldn't see him.  I could only feel the knowledge and peace, and joy, like the answer to every question I ever had was answered. It bothered me afterwards when I realized that my children needed me but I only wanted to stay where I was and feel the relief from my life that I felt. Under no circumstances would I have ever wanted to be away from my babies.  But I really wanted to get to that source of total peace, elation, and STAY there. Then the relative, whispering to me led me back to my body, when I woke from a coma with eight hundred stitches in my face I was devastated that I had to go back to my life. It felt like someone had played an awful trick on me. Now, in hindsight, I see the reasons for all of this, and they are invaluable.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 21, 1991
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My ex-husband was physically and emotionally abusing myself and our three young children.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I first left my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I first left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time is a manmade concept; I had a sense that there was no clock where I went.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My eyes weren't seeing this; something else was processing the images.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything seemed to be whispered.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was moving, something like a celestial warm wind.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Floating around me, comforting me, they looked like film negatives.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I had perceived the presence of an immense light just beyond where I believe I was detained.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, peace and fear of returning.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I simply was aware that I was being evaluated and deemed not ready.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is a forgiving entity, and so much more glorious than can actually be defined by any human standard.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I run on faith in creation, and in the creator who is beyond terminology of my mind'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is a forgiving entity, and so much more glorious than can actually be defined by any human standard.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am now certain I was sent back to do many things for which I was destined, and I have a sense of faith that transcends any religion.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Now I have a soulmate.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I could not put the experience into an accurate context in my life until it was meant for me to do so in the course of my life, plus not a lot of people seemed accepting when I attempted to relate the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As an artist I describe this ability as a spiritual sense of empathy toward other beings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The one part that is most significant to me now is that I know my twenty-three year old son is safe and waiting on me. He died suddenly in 2008 and made very subtle contact with me afterwards on several occasions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think my parents believed me even though it was somewhat difficult to compute, but we have grown very much closer over the years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was depressed because I didn't get to heaven.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same, only it makes really vital sense of my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dawn_w_nde.html