{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dawn_w_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Dawn W Possible NDE 6977","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dawn W Possible NDE 6977  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dawn W Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3510 Dawn W Possible NDE 6977  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Prior to this event I have always been just a tad bit psych, so my mother says since the day I was born. According to my mother I used to tell her that people were coming before they arrived and sure enough they would show, or tell her 'so and so' would be calling and a few minutes later they would indeed call. As a young child, I do remember having out of body experiences quite often. Of course, I did not know what this was and I never talked to anyone about these episodes. My mother always thought I was a very 'odd' child and never encouraged this strange behavior, quite the contrary. I think it gave her the 'creeps'. I shut down these episodes because of that, at least I think that's why. 

In addition to the above experiences, I have always had total recall of all of my dreams each and every night.  That is every night of my life!  Also, I have had many visions throughout my life. A vision is not uncommon to Native Americans.  However, some of us live their whole lives in hopes of having just one. I have been blessed with having had many. Some I understood, some I did not: until now. Those that did not make sense have now become clear through my Life after Life experience. I really don't remember too much leading up to the surgery other than the fact that I have been a chronic pain patient for over three years. I lost my job, which I really loved, due to the severity of my illness. Ninety-five percent of the last 3 years has been spent in bed due to pain, along with a lot of depression. I have been shuffled about from one specialist to another in the attempt to find out what was wrong with me. 

Finally, after 3 years of tremendous pain, I was sent to the medical center and it was discovered that I had Pelvic Floor Disorder due to the Pelvic Mesh Implant from a previous surgery. You know, the one you hear about on the TV all the time 'Trans-vaginal Mesh Lawsuit', that's the one! The mesh and the bone-in anchors needed to be removed. Surgery was scheduled for July 10, 2013, to remove the mesh and the bone in anchors. It was supposed to be a two-hour surgery and I was to go home after the surgery without restrictions. I went to the hospital with my sister, who stayed with me throughout the entire time. I don't remember anything really, prior to the surgery. I remember waking up with my Sister looking over me. She had on her face a look I had never seen before. It was a mixture of love and sincere fear. I asked her where I was, she told me that I was in the Intensive Care Unit. 

I ended up having two major surgeries within 5 days.) I do not know in which of the two I had my Life After Life experience. I am describing both hospital experiences first; then the Life After Life Experience that I was told about later on by my Sister while she had to watch me slip away from life more than once that night. 

What had happened to my 'two hour in and out surgery'? It had taken longer than expected. The Surgeon was able to remove the largest single piece of mesh in her entire career! And she was able to remove both of the bone in anchors. However, something had gone wrong, which had caused my blood pressure to drop down several times to 30. My sister said it was like watching an episode from 'Grey's Anatomy' with doctors running around me frantically yelling 'Code Blue'. They were very worried about me going into renal failure, whatever that is. Anyway, I was in ICU for many hours. Once stable I was moved to another room. I was eventually released later in the day.  

I was home for 5 days. On July 15, I began to experience SEVERE abdominal pain. I was home alone. My husband was at the pharmacy picking up my pain meds. I began to double over in pain and was trying so hard to get to my bed. I needed to get to my cell phone but I was in so much pain I could not think straight. I had no idea where my cell was. I heard it ring. The sound was coming from my bedroom. I went towards the sound. It was my Sister. I tried to tell her about the pain but I could barely speak. She told me to hang up and call an ambulance. I did. The next thing I remember were Paramedics standing over my bed. 

The next thing I recall was being carried out of my house on a stretcher. There was the most beautiful sky above, the likes of which I had never seen before. The PAIN! I did not know the human body could ever feel or be in the amount of pain in which I was. I wanted someone to kill me. Please. I begged for death. I was screaming aloud in pain. I was begging the Paramedic for a catheter. Something was very wrong. I needed to urinate so very badly but could not. The ambulance took me to a hospital, about 8 miles away. 

Upon my arrival, they gave me a catheter, thank God and ran a CT scan. They told me I had had a bladder cramp and that they can be very painful. No kidding! The CT scan showed that I had internal bleeding from the surgery! They had nicked the aorta.  Well, that hospital didn't want a thing to do with me, so they put me back in the ambulance and sent me back to the hospital over the Bay Bridge in the middle of the night.  I woke up in surgery, again. This time the Surgeon explained to me that he had to stop the leak in the vein. It had been accidentally snipped in the previous surgery. The surgical team all told me how very lucky I was to be alive. Had it not been for the bladder cramp and its onset I would have never called an ambulance. I would have fallen asleep and never ever awakened.  I had been at home for 5 days with internal bleeding.  No one knew. 

After the surgery, as I recovered in the hospital I was taken aback by all the well-wishers by the staff members. Everyone on the floor: the nurses, the cleaning crew, the assistant and the Doctors, who especially kept saying how very lucky I was to be alive. It seems it was only me that knew 'luck' had absolutely nothing to do with it. GOD is in complete control and is omnipresent. (This is a sentence and thought I would not have had prior to my event.) 

I left my body slowly, peacefully and effortlessly. I began a very slow journey through a semi-darkened tunnel upward towards a light far away, at first. In the distance, I could make out the silhouette of two figures on the left side. On the furthest to the left was the taller of the two. Directly next to him was a much shorter person. As I neared them, I somehow knew the tall figure on the left was indeed my Grandfather and next to him, the short figure, was my Great Grandmother. I could not make out any of their features. They were all shadow/silhouette. A very, very bright light glowed from behind them both. I was to stop where I was and to go no further. I did not hear any voices. I was made to understand this. I was not allowed to go nearer. I was not ready. More importantly: It was made known to me that I had not done enough GOOD in my life in order to be allowed to join them. I have to do much more good. I must go back. I turned around. 

As I began my descent, I was stopped. I was made to understand that I had a choice to make. I was shown two families. One family was on my left. This was the family that I knew; it was the family that I came from. The other family was on my right side. It was a large family with many more people than the family on my right. I had a decision to make. Which family did I want to go back to, the family on my left or the family on my right? I remember that this was not a decision made lightly. I took some time in making this decision. I finally, decided to return, to the family with which I was familiar. And so I did. 

I then regained consciousness. What happens after this could fill a novel, for it is miracle after miracle after miracle. To not just me but to others around me, even my dog and my plants! I am constantly, day after day, moment after moment, getting messages from GOD. I have been blessed with an abundance of Special Knowledge. I am told that I will have one more surgery, and only one. This will be on November 13th. 

After I recover from this surgery, my life is to become extremely busy. The next miracle: My Husband and I were driving into San Francisco to meet my Sister and Mother for lunch, prior to going to my Doctors appointment. We were early and I had been in the car already for 1 1/2 hours which in and of itself difficult and painful for me, not to mention the fact that I had to use the restroom really bad. Since we were running ahead of schedule, I asked my Husband to stop at the hospital, since we were in the neighborhood; also to let me run in and use the bathroom. (Hey, it beats using the bathroom at the gas stations!) Anyway, I removed my walker from the truck and went in to the hospital. I had to walk some distance to get to it but I made it in time. 

When done, I came back out to where my Husband had dropped me off and of course, he was nowhere to be seen. So I leaned up against the wall with my walker and waited. I cannot stand for more than 5 minutes before the pain becomes unbearable. I started to shake from the pain. I had to stand for far too long. I couldn't take it any longer. I began to get dizzy from the pain. I began to make my way back into the main entrance of the hospital because I knew if I did not sit down right away, I was going to pass right out from the pain of it all. The woman at the Information booth asked if I was all right and if I needed help. I said 'yes, I need help'. She asked if I needed a wheel chair, I said yes and then I began to pass out from the pain. They barely got the wheel chair under me in time, but they did. I then was semi-conscious. 

I was slumped in the chair as they began to wheel me into and towards the Emergency Room (ER). When we got to the ER window, the nurse there was trying to get information from me, but I could not speak. I now was having a huge explosion in my chest. It felt like a time bomb had gone off in the center of my chest. The next thing I knew the entire left side of my face, most especially my lips had dropped, so did my left arm and my left leg! I could not move anything on the left side of my body! Worse yet, I could not speak! I had no identification on me as I had just been dropped off to use the facilities. 

My poor Husband must be sick with worry, for he had no idea what had happened, or where I was. For that matter, neither did my Mother or my Sister who we were meeting for lunch! The staff finally got me on a hospital bed. I still could not speak. The Doctor came in and realized I had probably just had a stroke and then all hell broke out. He then called in another doctor, and then another doctor. They began firing questions at me, which were very difficult to answer, using only the right side of my mouth. I recall tears running down my face. 

I kept repeating 'Thank you God, Thank you God' over and over and over.  I felt no fear at all. I felt only LOVE. I felt only CALM. I felt only GRATITUDE. I was truly blessed. Who gets to have a stroke while in one of the best hospitals in the United States?  After many hours, and many tests, even though all those Doctors witnessed all of my symptoms, they could not find anything wrong with me, nothing at all!  My heart was great, my brain was fine, everything checked out perfectly! As I have said, since my experience, my life has changed drastically and continues to do so. There is simply too much to write. I am considering writing a book or perhaps a blog as I have so very much to say and I feel very compelled to share the messages that are coming my way.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  07/10/2013 and 07/15/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Other: 'In Surgery. Surgery was supposed to last 2 hours, blood pressure dropped to 30 on and off. Something went wrong under anesthesia.'  Blood pressure kept getting low enough that surgeons were concerned about renal failure. My sister watched as I slipped away on several occasions.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I really am unsure about this. I saw my sister so many times; it is hard to know as to what state I was in when seeing her and or me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My heightened level began when I had my life after life experience and has indeed never let up and grows more intense as the days roll by. I can now read people, pick up on other people's emotions. The most powerful thing is the ability to channel via my writing. I cannot believe some of the things that come through when I write. It is like I am another person.  So much of me has changed that I have had to write down all of the changes in personality and habits so I do not forget how I used to be. Those around me have changed as well. So has my dog. My plants have changed, too. They are growing as if it is springtime! There was clarity: unlike being awake. Also the knowing of information without being spoken to is impacting. The knowing of information seemed to be known by my entire being. As a person who has had many visions throughout my life, my experience was very similar to my visions: in that I know that the knowledge conveyed to me came/comes from GOD.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time is man's invention. GOD has no knowledge of Time. Time does not exist in this other dimension. This is why we must realize and appreciate every moment that we have here on Earth.  Part of the Special Knowledge that I now have been blessed with is the knowing that we must live our lives by being in the moment. It is in this way that we can stay in the 'present' which is our 'gift' from GOD.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision is very different than most people anyway. I have an acute eye for detail always. This has always been the case with me. I see things most people do not.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not recall hearing anything that comes to mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I did move through some sort of tunnel. I'm not quite sure that 'tunnel' is the correct term. I don't think the English language has the right word to describe such a thing that I proceeded through.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandfather and my Great Grandmother.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light I saw, which was behind my relatives was absolutely, extremely bright, like that of the Sun.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In my experience, I was definitely in another dimension that some would call Heaven. This Dimension has no time nor space nor any negativity at all: only LOVE and goodness and light. From this Dimension, we could know what was going on down below on Earth, if we choose to do so. I understood, somehow, that there were different levels one could be in. We were almost nearest the uppermost top level.  I learned so very much while I was in this Dimension.  I learned how mankind gets there or not, how God's and man's spirit interchange. I learned about the real mind body connection, about Religions, on and on it goes. I still am getting messages every day and every night. I spend my entire day and my entire night writing, thinking, writing, and thinking again, day after day and night after night.  I think I will be starting a Blog soon as I have been told that I am to get all of the messages that I have received out to the world.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When seeing my relatives I felt joy; then confusion. Then disappointment when told I could not be with them. Then surprise, taken aback, baffled, somewhat shocked and mystified that I would not be allowed to be with them until I did more GOOD on Earth.  In a quandary, undecided and then committed at having to choose between families. Finally, determination: do more GOOD, so that next time when I returned, I could be with my Grandfather and my Great Grandmother in Heaven.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     All of the visions I had, that did not made sense now, became very clear to me. I seem to now be able to answer all sorts of questions such as: 'what is our purpose in life?' How do I find my Passion in life? Is there such a thing as Death? Is there really a Heaven? What is Heaven like? Is there a GOD? Better yet, I can now help people to not be afraid to Die, feel good about going to Heaven, fix relationships, know GOD, help people see that their weaknesses are indeed their strengths, give them 'rules to live by', empower them to live a better life or a Love-filled life.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Scenes from the world's past and future were shown to me. However, they were shown so very fast that I was unable to discern any one particular picture: past and/or future.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I could go no further. I was told that I had a lot more GOOD to do.  I recall really thinking hard on this choice. The other family was much larger, which I thought was nice. I also thought that they probably didn't have all the dysfunction that mine did either. It looked like there was a Mother and Father. How nice would that be? Their house was pretty big too, that was great! I had a twin Sister, wow! They also seemed to be financially well off, that would really be a nice change! Now it was decision time. I decided to go back to the family with which I was familiar. And so I did.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Native American religion   I am Eastern Band Cherokee and follow the ways of my Ancestors and relatives.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Prior to, I did not practice any religious anything, ever. Now my day begins with prayer and it ends with prayer: every day.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Native American religion

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not believe that I could not be with my relatives when I died. And I found it very difficult to understand that I could have chosen to come back into a completely different family. ALso since I did end up choosing my own family to return to I wonder what happened to the other family. Did someone end up dying I wonder. I hope not.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have an unshakable and unquestionable belief in God. I have witnessed firsthand the miraculous power of love. Nothing is impossible with God on your side. I believe in Miracles, they happen all the time; I have been a party to them and a recipient of many.  I know that God is the thinker of our thoughts. I know that we all must suffer but it is through suffering that we gain the knowledge of God. I know that God wants us to get back to simpler times. We are entering a time to which mankind needs to ask ourselves 'Who Are We'. It is a time for mankind to get back to simpler times and connect with one another/each other and transform/transcend with God for peace throughout the world.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I did not hear anyone's voice, yet I was told many things through a knowing of information.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   However, I now feel like Jesus! This statement sounds crazy and ridiculous I full well know yet it is how I feel. I know how Jesus must have felt and I feel the power of GOD is in me and Nothing is impossible unto me.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have far too much special knowledge to even begin to write down. I started writing in a journal and that is now full. It has turned into a book. I am now contemplating starting a Blog and am in the process of writing an essay that I would like to submit

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Absolutely. Ever since my Grandfather passed away, in 1989, I lost all fear of Death because I adamantly knew that when I died I would be with him. This experience really shocked me to the core because I knew or I thought I had died and there I was on my

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     GOD is LOVE. GOD is TRUTH. GOD is OMNIPOTENT. What God can't do man need not try. There is no spot where GOD is not! With GOD at my side nothing is impossible unto me.   I was NOT a religious person before my life after life experience, far from it intact.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Far too much Special Knowledge has been obtained to write here. I would be here for at least a week, perhaps more.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes. I was told that with Gods help I was to go back to Earth and do a lot of Good work . I had not fulfilled my purpose here on Earth nor had I learned the meaning of my life. THerefore I was being sent back.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     I was shown Heaven or what seems to feel better another Dimension. In this dimension there is no space awareness nor time nor material objects. There is a nothingness yet everything one could wish for is present.  Absent are negative emotions, darkness.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Do not take for granted that just because you are a nice person or because you go to church that that grants you a free pass into Heaven. No, it is the amount of Service that you freely give to others that counts. And this service must have the best of intentions as well.  Remember to love your self first, be alert to keep negative thoughts out (Stand porter at the door of thought), pay attention (to all of the messages God sends to you) and most importantly - LOVE.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     Other than what I have written above , none that I can think of.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes, When I saw my relatives there was such an intense feeling of love. Love seemed to want to burst forth from my heart yet at the same time I seemed to be coated with love from the outside as well. In addition I was totally and absolutely surrounded by

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I never said prayers before. Now I say them every morning and every night. I have drastically changed in almost every way. I never liked sweets at all. Now I eat cookies, candy, and ice cream. Before, I used to sleep until 11 am now I wake up at 6 am and watch the Sunrise each and every morning.  I have always slept with heavy blankets on me. I always said 'I like it that way', as it kept me from having Out of Body experiences. Now I don't like all those blankets and sleep with only one blanket over me. All my life I have been terrified of the dentist. I went today, in fact, and I was not even nervous. I actually looked forward to it! This in and of itself was a miracle. Because I knew GOD was with me! 

  Before my experience, I was an Alcoholic. I drank 10 to 12 beers each and every night. Now the thought of alcohol makes me ill.  I simply woke up one morning and stopped. After years of trying to stop and failing miserably, I just stopped.  It was an act of God. I never even have a craving, ever!   I used to hate to eat fruit! Now I love it. I can't get enough of it. I constantly crave it. My entire eating habits have changed. I only want to eat what God has created. I thank God before I eat every meal. I would have NEVER thought to do this before.   The following is very hard to explain: Before my experience, my marriage was over. We had not been getting along for so very long. He was on my very last nerve and I believe he felt the same way. We could not even be in the same room together without arguing or fighting. I had paid $300.00 for the Divorce forms, so finally we were getting a divorce.  I could not handle it much more, so time to end it. Well, after my experience we began to get along so very well one would think we had just been married. I now am so much in love with my husband I feel as if we are newly married. Even more miraculous is he feels the same way, too. 

  In fact, yesterday morning He said to me, 'You know Dear, I have never felt this Happy in my entire life!' In addition, if I think of something, all of a sudden it just comes into my life, effortlessly. I have a Pomeranian. She has always been extremely shy and always stays very close to me. She is 7 years old. When I returned home from the hospital, she started a brand new habit. She wanted to be in my lap! She had never done this before, ever. Now, all the time, she just wants to be in my lap. It's as if she feels really safe there. As if she can feel the energy of pure love. 

  I eat differently as well. When I eat all the food tastes as if I am eating/tasting that particular food for the first time, which is very strange. I am so enjoying the experience of it all, so very much. I can read people now, too. I have never been able to do that either. I have only been able to try this out a little because I only go out to doctor appointments right now, until I have my surgery, which is scheduled for November 13th.  But when I have tried it, it is accurate.  I have always had total recall of my dreams, now I do not remember my dreams at all.

  Here are some more changes that I can think of right now: All of my plants are blooming and growing as if it were springtime not late October. I am much more psychic than before my experience. All my life therapists have tried to get me to Journal. I absolutely hated the thought of it. Now I write all day long. I am filled with pure joy.

  Before I suffered a life full of depression and most of my life was spent wishing I was dead. I used to find temporary pleasure in shopping or spending money that I did not have. I recently received a large amount of money and it did not increase or decrease my mood. I was just as joyful before I received it and as joyful, after I received it: no change at all. As a young child, I had been sexually abused. Because of that, among other things I had always been EXTREMELY modest, even around my husband. Not so any more. I have a freedom now unlike anything I have ever known.

  This is because somehow, someway all past negative experiences have been washed away. I know that. I now am the Dawn or person I was always supposed to be without having any negative experiences mold me. I used to have zero tolerance for repetition. That is to say, watching the same movie twice or making a mistake and having to repeat something. I just hated it. Now I don't mind it at all. It doesn't bother me one bit. I don't have much of an appetite.   That may have something to do with the fact that I am spending every waking moment on Spiritual things and lose track of time. I'm not sure. When I used to make a telephone call to work things out for example with the Utilities or perhaps, Insurance issues I would always take the position of an attorney and always win my point. Now I get very emotional and even cry! My emotions are so very sensitive and raw now. I have changed in that: my mind, spirit and heart is filled to the brim with Special Knowledge that I feel the need to share. I feel compelled to help and be of service. I am just not sure whether it is to the world or my family. I am now, for the first time in 30 years, wanting to quit smoking. My handwriting has changed dramatically. I drink decaf coffee all day. I never really liked coffee before. I have a constant feeling that I will be so very busy after my recovery from my surgery. Life just doesn't get any better than this! The bottom line is: I am a completely different person and I love myself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Absolutely. Prior to my experience, I was going to divorce my Husband. Now I am so much in love with him. The feeling is definitely mutual.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Some of it is easy to describe, some very difficult. First, it depends on to whom I would be describing it. I have not discussed this with too many people, yet.   Some are not open to this type of discussion. Some are. Also, we do not have the words within our current language which would adequately work to describe it. When I do describe it, an ethereal mood seems to overtake me and I make hand gestures of which I have never made before. I also feel so light that it would not surprise me if I started to float.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   My experience is crystal clear. I believe it shall remain crystal clear until the day I pass away permanently.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Most definitely. My psychic abilities have begun to get more intense than before. I am now able to read people and have had a few premonitions. It being so new to me, I have not had a chance to really try things out, as I have been on bed rest, doctor's orders until my surgery date: Nov.13 2013.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mostly, the part about having to do more 'GOOD'; then waking up only to find that not only do I have psychic abilities but now I also have, what seems to be, an endless amount of 'Special Knowledge': of which I feel compelled to share with the world and I have no idea, yet, as to how to do this.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    3 weeks after the experience, I told my mother. Her reaction was that she was not surprised at all, as she said she always knew there was something 'Special' about me.  I did tell my Husband and he really has changed. It's hard to put my finger on it but he is extremely supportive and understanding, of which I am shocked. He is so very changed. He is just kinder and gentler all around. I have come to love him all the more.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I just thought it was another one of my vivid dreams again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is not a shadow of a doubt, in my mind, that my experience was exactly what this page acknowledges.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Most definitely: yes!  I have had many visions throughout my life. Some of them I did not understand. A couple of the ones that I did not understand were made clear in the life after life experience that I had. For example: in a vision I had had about 15 years ago, I was taken to Heaven or another Dimension (as I like to call it) and I was shown how time passes in the Spirit world, as well as how from the Spirit world's perspective how a human being's life passes here on Earth. At the time (15 years ago), I knew that it was an important vision, but I did not really understand the significance of it, until my life after life experience. 

  I then knew that it was my second time being in this Dimension.  It was important that I understand about time passing in this Dimension, so that I can share this with others.  I knew that part of what I must do, is to alleviate the fear that people have about missing their loved ones when they die.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The other thing I know is that I must also let people know what Heaven (the next Dimension) is like. No 'Fear of the Unknown' for I will tell them what it is like and let them know about the passing of time. The other thing is that I am being given information to be passed on or giving out. It is crucial that I share this information! God will make it clear as to how it will come about. Each day that goes by, I am given more knowledge and am filled with more joy and love. I must share the knowledge that I am being given.  Love is indeed the only thing that you can take with you. Gain and give as much of it as possible during your time here, which is very short.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dawn_w_possible_nde.html