{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1457","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n22_nov_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N22 November 1885","mylang":"de"}
lfo. XXIL-VoL. n NOnJIau,lllll6..
JOURNAL
01' TBB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Ne. Members and Auocla.te• ..
Meetings or Council .. ..
OOBTBBTB.
~~fi~~c,::n~:1ll ~~tIn~. .. .. .. .. "
Library Catalogue •. •. . . . . . . . . . .
ProeeediDga of the Amerlc"n Society ror P8ychicoJ llesearch
lleamerlc Experim8nta at Lyon . . .. . . . • . .
Cues recetved by the L1teruy Committee ..
]led Light .. .
CoJUlESPONT,BlfOB :-
PJ.O.
,. ~
.. s~
.. 90
•• 9:iI
.. D2
.. 93
.. DC>
.. 88
.. 108
1fr. Innett'. ClIrcnlar .. .. .. . . lOll
Old Physical Phenomena Committee .. .. US
~Ir. Barkas' Medium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. 11S
ll.eport on .. Impromptu RepU6I through 1\ Lady Plychlc of yery LImited Bdacalion" .. 11
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
BoUTLEBOW, Professor, The University, St. Petersburg.
MEMBERS.
ELWYN, Rev. Canon, Ma.ster's Lodge, Charterhouse, London, E.C.
HADDINGTON, The Countess of, Tyninghame, Prestonkirk, N.B.
MATl'lIEWB, Frank Herbert, B.A., King's School, Canterbury.
MUIRHEAD, Henry, M.D., M.A., Bushy Hill, Cambuslang, Gla.s-
gow, N.B.
ASSOCIATES.
CAMPBELL, Miss E., South Hall, Coiintraive, Argyllshire, N.B.
GLYN, The Hon. and Rev. E. Carr, The Vicarage, Kensington, S.W.
HILL, Miss E. D., Somerdon, Sidmouth.
MA1I8BALL, William Cecil, M.A., 1, Torrington Street, London, W.C.
MINOT, Dr. Charles Sedgwick, 25, Mount Vernon Street, Boston, U.S.A.
THUBTELL, William Ellis, M.A., 13, Monmouth Road, Westbourne
Grove, London, W.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
At a Council Meeting held on the 9th of October, the following
Members were present: Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edward R. Pease.
Frank Podmore, and Mr. J. Herbert Stack, who wa.s voted to the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
"
Digitized by Google
90 Journal 0/ Society /01' P8ycAicai &8earcA. [Nov., 1885.
On the proposition of Mr. Edmund Gurney, Professor Boutlerow,
of St. Petersburg, was eJected a Corresponding Member.
One new Member and three new Associates, whose names appear
above, were elected.
In connection with the occurronce of the General Meeting on the
29th of October, a Meeting of the Council, held in accordance with the
resolution passed in February last, was summoned for the afternoon of
the same day. The Members present were: Professor Barrett, Messrs.
Alexander Calder, Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, Richard
Hodgson, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and Hens1eigh Wedgwood.
The chair was taken by Mr. H. Wedgwood.
After the Minutes of the previous Meeting had been read. and
signed as correct, three new Members and three new Associates were
elected, whose names and addresses are included in the list given above.
The Treasurer reported that Mr. Frederick Elder, who was elected
on the 2nd of October, had qualified as a Life Member of the Society.
The Council directed the amount thus received, £21, to be invested
in Consols.
Some presents to the Ll'brary were on the table, which are otherwise
acknowledged.
A cash account made up to date was presented, and one account
passed for payment.
The very few complete sets of Volume I. of the Journol which
remain having been bound, it was resolved that four copies be presented
to the following Libraries: The British Museum, the Bodleian, the
Cambridge University, and the American Academy at Boston, the
remaining copies to be retained by the Society.
It was resolved that 25 copies of the first Report issued by the
American Society for Psychical Research be ordered. The price at
which these can be offered to Members will be announced as soon as
they are in hand.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 27th of
November.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
The first General Meeting of the Society for the season was held on
the evening of Thursday, the 29th of October, at the Garden Mansion,
Queen Anne's Mansions, S.W.
In the absence of the President, the chair was taken by Professor
Barrett. .
Mr. Myers began by explaining the general position he was about
to take up in the controversy now going on as to the true nature of
Digitized by Google
NOT., 1885.] Journal qrSocietyfor P'!lchical Rutn1·ch. 91
man. The old view, he said, held both by ordinary common-sense and
by most metaphysicians, maintains that each of us possesses a distinct
and permanent personality-a. self which is a unity and not a. mere
aggregation. This view is usually based on intrtnpec'ion. The new
physiological view, on the other ha.nd, is to the effect that the only
unity in us is the unity of our organism, and that our sense of
personality depends merely on the temporary harmony of a sufficient
number of the physical elements which compose us. This view is
supported by the physiological analysis, which tends to show how our
higher physical processes may be mere developments of the lower
processes which we share with the brute. Mr. Myers explained that he
advocated the f1M1}UH:l8 of this newer school, but that he was led by
them te something more like the ccmcluriofu of the older. But he held
that the old empirical conception of human personality must be
analysed into its constituent elements before the basis of a scientific
doctrine of human personality could safely be laid.
In pursuance of this ana.lysis, he proceeded to give an account of
various experiments on hypnotised subjects, partly made by the Society
for Psychical Research, but mainly made by certain French I(J~,
Professors Bernheim, Beaunis, &c. From these it appears that if a
favourable subject was hypnotised, and a suggestion made to him in the
hypnotic trance, this suggestion will work itself out a.fterwards in his
waking life, and he will do what he has been told to do, yet will all the
while suppose that he is acting on his own impulse. It was thus shown
tha.t our sense of free-will may often be illusory.
Mr. Myers then touched on the phenomena of Glurnating memory,
which hypnotism evokes. The subject acquires, it seems, a. second
memory, distinct from the first, and including the things said and done
in the trance condition, which are entirely forgotten in ordinary waking
life. It was thus indicated that we can hardly appeal to the continuity
of our memory as a proof of a persistent personality.
After pointing out the dangers involved in hypnotism, and the safe-
goards against those dangers, Mr. Myers gave some remarkable examples
of improvement of character effected by hypnotic suggestion. It appears
that habits of over-indulgence in beer, spirits, coffee, and smoking ha.ve
been effectually checked by throwing the subject into the hypnotic
trance, and suggesting to him that on his awaking he would find that
he disliked beer, &C. This kind of suggestion needs occasional renewal,
and an anecdote was told of an idle boy, to whom it was suggested. in
the hypnotic trance that he would henceforth be diligent. He became
so, and rose to the top of his class, but he did not like his new character,
and when the effect of the suggestion wore off he obstinately refused to
be hypnotised again. Mr. Myers was of opinion that this power of
suggestion might be turned to great practical advantage.
Digitized by ~&OgIe
92 Journal qf &eke!l.for PS.lfcllicnl Research. [Nov., 1885.
Returning to his opening statement of opinion, he pointed out that
this process of analysing human faculties by direct experiment, though
in some directions it led to conclusions at which our self-esteem might
revolt, yet was beginning to discover in us the germs of faculties
transcending any which we were previously aware of possessing. Such
a faculty was telepathy, or the transmission of thought and sensation
from one mind to another, without the agency of the recognised organs
of sense. This discovery in itself placed the whole problem of our being
in a different light, and domed reasonable grounds for hope that we
might hereafter establish on a valid scientific basis much that bad
hitherto been the object only of trust and aspiration.
The Chairman expressed his sense of the importance of Mr. Myers'
paper. He considered that these facts mark an era in hypnotic
research. He invited M. Richet, one of the Corresponding Members of
the Society, to address the Meeting.
M. Richet (who spoke in French) expounded the view of "un-
conscious intelligence," which he has advocated in connection with his
experiments in mental suggestion, and expressed his conviction that a
large amount of intelligent process £OEl8 on below the level of con-
sciousness.
The meeting then assumed a conversational character.
IDbituat~ Jaoace.
By the death of LoRD HOUGHTON our Society has lost a valued
Member. Lord Houghton (on whose other attainments and distinctions
it is, of course, needless here to touch), had throughout his life paid
attention to occult subjects,and possessed a rare and valuable collection
of books on mystic lore. He showed, from the first, a strong interest in
the researches of our Society.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The following additiorul have been made Bince laBt month.
CLARK (W. W.) A Forecast of the Religion of the Future •..London, 1879*"
EVANS (W. F.) The Primitive Mind-Cure •.•..•.........•••...•..••.Boston, 1885
PROCEEDINGS of the American Societyfor Psychical Research. Vol. I.,
No. 1 •...•••••.••...••.•.••......•••.•..••.....•..•.••.....•..•........•.•BOBton, 1885t
PAOCBEDINGS of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow. Vola. XV.
and XVI...•.....•.•.•.....,........•...........•....................Glcugow, 1884-5t
• Presented by the Author. +Presented by the Society.
::: p_ted by the Society.
Digitized by Google
·NoT., 1885.] Journal of 8oeke!! for P&!!ckical &&earcn. 93
PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
(Vol I., No. I, BOlton, July, 1885.)
The most important part of the first number of the Proceedings of
·our sisterSociety consists in the interesting report of the Committee on
Thought-transference. This Committee issued circulars, asking for
.assistance in experiments designed on lines similar to those suggested
by M. Richet. They received in reply records of 5,500 tria.Is in guess-
ing the colour of a playing-card on which the agent concentrated his
.attention, and of II,600 trials in guessing which of the 10 digits
was thought of. In the card experiments, where the most probable
percentage of success was 50, the actual percentage was 50'51.
And in the digit experiments, where the most probable percentage
of success was 10, the actual percentage was 10'33. The smallness
·of these excesses over the most probable number leads to the conclusion
that no thought-transference took place.
In the digit experiments, the Committee recommended that the 10
digits should be written down by the agent one below the other in any
.arbitrary order, and that he should then think of these figures succes-
sively, passing alternately up and down the column till I 00 guesses have
been made. This plan seems to give the percipient too mucb information
about the order of the digits, and so to introduce a possible source· of
serious error. In the first place, he knows that each digit will occur
once, and once only, in each decade. If, therefore, he has already
guessed a 3, say, in the course of a decade, there is a danger of bis over-
riding an impulse, which may be due to thought-transference, to
guess a 3 again. In the second place, he knows that, given the order
ofthe digits in the first decade, that in the other nine decades would
follow, so that if he remembers his first ten guesses the impulse produced
by this recollection to guess the digits of subsequent decades in the order
given by the first may be stronger than any impulse from thought-
transference. The consequence would be that if all his first ten guesses
were wrong he would make no right guesses at all, though by thought-
transference he might have been led to guess right ninety times; while
ifhisfirst ten guesses happened to be right he would be right all through
the hundred, though there might have been no thought-transference
whatever in the last ninety. In short, bias from this second cause, if
.completely operative, would, as Professors Peirce and Pickering point
·out, reduce a set of a hundred guesses to equivalence with ten. It will
beinteresting to learn from Dr. Minot's promised analysis of the guesses
. "bether bias from either of these causes has operated, except in
the case described as C&Sf'I E.
Experiments were also made in guessing the number on a die thrown.
Digitized by Google
94 JON"",1 ofSockt!l for P81lcllical RutarcA. [NOY., 1883.
The probable percentage of correct guesses was 16·7, and the actual per-
centage IS·9, but the number of triala-31S-is insufficient to base any
conclusion upon.
The report of the Committee a1lo contains a short appendix on
some experiments with diagrams similar to those which have se,·eral
times been described in our own Proceeding,. The success is, perhaps,
not very brilliant,but it is decided enough to afford distinct corroboration
to our own experiments.
An interesting appendix is added by Professor Pickering on the
possibility of error, due to thought-transference, in scientific researches
in which an assistant is aware of facts a knowledge of which the
observer intentionally avoids. The example he brings forward is the
revision of the Northern stars, where, after the observer has indepen-
dently estimated the brightness of a star, his estimate is compared with
that of the Durchmusterung of Argelander. If thought-transference
occurs between the recorder who knows the previous estimate, and the
observer who does not, Professor Pickering thinks that the result
should be a greater number of cases where the new estimate and the
old agree than there would otherwise be. He explains how the cal-
culation is to be made, and what corrections need to be applied, and
gives a careful analysis of the observations made at the Harvard College
Observatory, where he finds nO indication of thought-transference.
I am inclined to doubt whether the knowledge of previous estimates
always tends to produce argument; with over-scrupulous observers it
may, I think, tend the other way. But, however this may be, for any
effect at all to be produced, there must surely be some degree of
certainty as to what the previous estimate was; and from what even the
moat successful percipients tell us of their experiments, the impression
they believe themselves to derive from thought-transference would seem
to be generally faint in comparison to the slightest impression allowed
to enter the mind from other sources. For this reason I should be
surprised to find thought-transference operative in cases such as that
discussed by Professor Pickering.
In conclusion, the Committee say that they have under consideratioa
some forms of experiment founded on the hypothesis that conceptionsof
geometric form or arrangement may be more easily transferred than
conceptions of colour or number, and capable of bringing the queatioll ~
exact numerical tests. We may, therefore, look forward with interest
to the next number of the Pf"OCe6ding,.
E.M.B.
Digitized by Google
Boy., 1885.] Journal ~f Society for Paychical Be.arch. 95
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS AT LYON.
M j[~Vtne ,.4"ifl1(Jl ; par Ie Dr. CLAUDE PUBONNBT (de Lyon).
Lons-le-Saunier, 1884.
This book consists of papers first printed about 18 months ago,
in the Liherte du Jura, and afterwards collected and republished in
the chief town of the Jura department. Many of the personal
observations are very interesting, and as they have not hitherto received
much attention, either in France or England, we may be excused, we
hope, for giving a brief summary of their principal points.
Interest at Lyon in hypnotic phenomena was excited by Verbeck, the
well-known conjurer, who showed in public what could be done with
many persons when in the condition of hypnotic catalepsy. M.Perronnet
was impressed with the inference that suggestion was very powerful with
such persons. In May, 1883, he availed himself of an opportunity for
experiment; he was called to a girl of 18, who was a nervous, wayward
subject, and whom he found in a state of muscular rigidity. He put his
fingers on her eyeballs with a slight tremulous movement; for a time the
muscles completely relaxed, but afterwards they grew rigid again; when
he touched the left side of her head, she moved the right side of the
body and also spoke, as he thought she probably would do, since he
imagined that the speech-centre in the left side of the brain would be
stimulated; if the right side of the head was touched there was, as a.
rule, movement of the left side of the body without speech. In one
experiment, however, he was meaning to touch the left side and was
anticipating speech ; the speech came, but be found he was really touch-
ing the right side, and he inferred that the speech followed his will or
anticipation rather than the position of his fingers. He, thereupon,
retreated several yards, so that contact was impossible, and gave her
mental orders without speaking. He was surprised to find that she
obeyed them at once; and still more surprised when he found that if
one of the spectators took his hand at a distance and gave similar silent
mental orders, she obeyed him also.
Two months later he was treating Mdlle. X., ret. 21, a hysterical
and anremic .woman. She was easily hypnotised by gentle pressure on
the eyeballs; if the left eye only was touched the right side of the body
grew cataleptic, and the left was rigid. She could not play the piano;
but he took her up to it, put his left hand on the left side of her head,
and played a tune with his right hand, telling her, when he had finished,
to repeat it; this she did accurately with her right hand, and even
repeated it in another key when she was asked to do so, after the first
note only had been struck for her guidance. He retreated to some
little distance behind her, and asked her to play another well-known
tune, which he named, and to play it with some spirit. She played it
Digitized by Google
96 Journal qf &ciety for P8fjcllical Reuarch. [NOY.. l885.
in a most excited fashion, but he found he could silently stop her by his
will when he was standing· behind her and looking at her.
One day the idea struck him that he would make a person he had
himself mesmerised mesmerise another subject; and he found no difti..
culty after he had mesmerised X to make X mesmerise Y. But when
Y was thus mesmerised he could not wake her, or influence her move-
ments, except by means of inducing X to act upon her. This could
be carried a step further, and, by action on X, he could induce X to
mesmerise Y so that Y should go on to mesmerise Z. In such a case
he found himself powerless over Y and Z, and that they had an inert
expressionless look, which he attributed to want of will in the persons
who had mesmerised them.
He found it easy to make his mesmerised subjects believe that a
glass of water which was in their hands contained any drugs he thought
of; and that without a word spoken, and, indeed, often without there
being in reality any glass or any water. He turned his thoughts to
morphia; the mesmerised person sang Marguerite's song in "Faust" with
all the emotions of that scene plainly shown in her face. then imagined
that she drank the poison, and fell gradually under the influence of
morphia; more water was given, whilst the doctor fixed his thoughtson
atropine. and she slowly recovered from the narcotic effects of the
imaginary morphia by the antidote of the imaginary atropine. After
other delusive suggestions that the mesmerised su~jects had taken
colocynth. aloes, Glauber's salts, &c., the usual physiological results
followed unsparingly. This was a repetition of the experiments which
had been suggested by M. Dumontpallier. M. Perronnet found. also,
that with patience he could, from a distance, influence the vaso-motor
system and the distribution of the blood supply of the subject according
to his unspoken intentions, so that, from a distance, he was able thus to
make ono limb colder than the other, and in one case he thought he
diminished the temperature and inflammation in cellulitis of one arm.
When he mesmerised people and others asked them questions without
contact, the answers were tinged more or less by the knowledge and
wishes of the questioner, and there were four classes of conditions 80
produced. (i.) The questioner asked a qUElStion, of which he knew the
answer; this knowledge and the real fact conspired to make the subject
give the true answer. which generally happened.
(ii) The questioner asked a question to which he did not know the
answer, but hoped it might be one particular thing. The desired
answer was generally given whether it was true or not. If the
questioner desired nothing in particular he might get the true answer.
(iii.) If both M. Perronnet and the questioner knew t.he correct
answer it was generally easily obtained.
(iv.) If the lluestioll~r did not know the answer but M. Perronnet
Digitized by Google
Noy., 1885.] Journal of Society/oJ" Psycllicnl Re&eu,·ct.. 97
-did, the answer given was generally a mixture of what the questioner
wanted with what M. Perronnet knew.
M. Perronnet does not hesitate to accept some cases as instances of
-clairvoyance (lucidite objective) in a somnambulic state, but he only
~ves the details of one story which could be considered as strictly of
this kind. He chose A, a girl easily mesmerised, and put her at his
house into a state of deep sleep; her limbs became rigid or flaccid
.according to his wish, and stayed where he chose to place them; her
pupils did not react to light, which he took to be the most conclusive
disproof of fraud. They went together to visit a sick child, B; A was
left in the corner of the room. The doctor went up to B, and taking up
her hand asked A what was the rate of the pulse; A told him quite
«Irrectly how many beats there were to the minute, and when the
doctor felt a beat missed out she exclaimed quickly, "A beat dropped I"
So far, what she had done might be interpreted as the result of the
doctor's knowledge communicated to her at a distance, or of an abnormal
sensibility on the part of the girl, which enabled her to see the beating
of the pulse. He went on, however, to a more important point, and
put his clinical maximum thermometer under the sick child's arm.
After a few minutes he took it out, and put it back in its case without
lookir.g at it, and asked A what the temperature was. " Thirty-seven
and something more," she said. "Are you Bure '/" the doctor asked..
"No, no," she answered; "I see I mistook a 9 for a 7, it is 39° and
three cross-lines." He then looked at the thermometer, and found it
39°'3; the tenths of each degree being marked with cross-lines on the
stem.
He goes on to give several stories of another kind, viz., thought-
transference, for which we have here room for only one. A girl whom
he had mesmerised was in the same room with him when he was writing
a letter, but at a considerable distance and out of sight. When he had
come to an end of the letter, he read it through silently to himself, and
when he reached the place where, in writing the word "three-quarters,"
he had left out the "three" by accident, the girl suddenly called out,
"He has left out the 'three' 1 He has made a mistake 1"
To illustrate the usefulness of mesmerism in medical practice he
recounts se~era.l of his own experiences, in which he found himself able
to exercise great control over hysterical women in tonic rigid spasm,
in trance, and in violent convulsions, and on one occasion to strengthen
the aruesthetic effects of ether when administering it before a surgical
operation to a drunkard who took it very badly.
He at first thought that everyone shares about equally in mesmeric
power, but after considerable experience has come to believe tha.t it
varies with the individnal, a.nd depends on some quality of temperament
which he cannot determine beforehand.
gitized by (.oogI
98 Joflt'nal C!f &Cietylor PB1/chical Raea,.ck. (Nov.,l8S.'i.
Of the method of physical action in these thought-transferences, M.
Perronnet attempts to give BOme explanation. He suggests that all
thoughts probably produce BOme physical movements in the periphery
of the body; and that, though these movements may generally be
unconscious and always very trifling, yet the undulations started by
them may be perceptible by the abnormally acute receptive powers of
the hypnotised subject, and may BO be able to reproduce the idea from
which they originated. "Moo e:eplication n'tJIIt pas parfa.ite," concludes
M. Perronnet, "mail clUJTchO'l&8 emembls a.vec C6 .tJUl tJBPOir :jia,e lux."
A. T. M.
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY OOMMITTEE.
(Continued.)
L.-2:w4.-Ad Fa
From Mr. G. Fournier, of 21, Rue de Berlin, Paris, a friend of M. Ch.
Richet's, who guarantees his absolute bolla ,/ida.
16 Octobre, 1885.
Le 21 femer, 18'19, j'etais invite '''lIner chez mes &mis, M. et Mme. B--.
En arrivant dans Ie salon, je constate l'absence d'un commensal ordinaire de
1a maison, M. d'E-, que je rencontrais presque toujours 11 leur tsble. J'en
fais 1a remarque, et Mme. B-- me repond que d'E-, employe dans unit
importante maison de banque, etait sans doute fort occuptS en ce moment.
car on ne l'avait pas vu depuis deux jours. A partir de ce moment, il nef"f
pUll quutum de tlE-. Le repas s'acheve fort gaiement, et sans que
Mme. B-- donne 1a moindre marque visible de preoccupation. Pendant
10 diner, noUB avions forme Ie projet d'aller achever notre lOiree au theAtre.
Au dessert Mme. B-- se l~ve pour aller s'habiller dans sa chambre, dont la
porte, reetee entr'ouverte, donne dans la salle...manger. B-- et moi
etions restes ~ t1lble, fumant notre cigare, quand, aprlls quelques minutes a
peine, noUB entendons un en terrible. Croyant ~ un accident, noUB noUB
precipitons dans la chambre, et noUB trouvons Mme. B-- assise, prete a.
se trouver mal. NOUB noUB empressons autour d'elle ; elle se remet peu 11
peu, et noUB fait alors Ie recit suivant.
" Aprlls vous avoir quittes, je m' habillais pour IOrtir, et j'etais en train
de nouer les brides de mon chapeau devant rna glace, quand tout+coup j'si
vu dans cette glace d' E- entrer par la porte. n avait IOn chapeau sur la
tete ; il tStait pAle et triste; sans me retoumer je lui adresse la parole,
.. Tiens, d'E--, VOUB voil& ; asseyez.VOUB done" ; et comme il ne repondait
pas, je me suis alors retoume et je n'ai plUB rien vu ; prise alors de peur,
fai POUBS8 Ie cri que VOUB avez entendu."
B--, pour rassurer sa femme, se met a. 1a plaisanter, traitant
l'apparition d' hallucination nerveUBe, et lui disant quo d' E-- serait tres.
flatte d' apprendre a. quel point il occupait sa pensde; puis, comme Mme-.
B-- reetait toute tremblante, pour couper court a. IOn emotion, nOUB;
lui proposons de partir tout de suite, alltSguant que noUB allions manquer Ie
lever du rideau. "Je n'ai pas pense un seul inatant a. d' E-," noUB dit
Mme. B--, "depuis que M. F-- m' a demand6 1& cause de IOD abeence.
Digitized by Google
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 99
Je ne auis pas nerveuae, et je n'ai jamaia eu d' hallucination; je VOUB &88uro
qu'iJ y a Iii. quelque chOll8 d'extraord.inaire, et quant iI. moi je ne sortirai pa6
avant d'avoir des nouvelles de d' E-. Je VOUB aupplie d' alJer chez lui,
c'eat Ie aeul moyen de me r&BBurer." Je conaeille a. B-- de ceder au desir'
de aa femme, et noua partona toua les deux chez d' E--, qui demeurait.
i. trea pell de distance. l'out en marchant noUB plaiaantiona beaucoup aur lea
frayeura de Mme. B--.
En arrivant chez d' E--, noUB demandona au concierge, "D' E--, eat-
il chez lui 1" .. Oui, meuieura, il n'est paa deacendu de la joumee." D' E--
habitait un petit appartement de g&l'9On; il n'avait paa de domestiquea.
Nous montona chez lui, ot noUB soDDona 11. pluaieura repriaea aana avoir de
reponae. Noua sonDona plUB fort, puis DOUB frappona iI. tour de brae, aana.
plus de aucc8a. B--, emOtiODDe' malgni lui, me dit, "C'est abaurde, Ie
concierge 18 aera tromp(, ; iJ eat sorti ; deacendona." Maia Ie coDcierge DOUlt
aflirme que d'E-- n'est pas sorti, qu'il en est abaolument a1lr. Vcfritablement.
efl'rayea, nous remontons avec lui, et noua tentona de nouveau de noUB faire
ouvrir; puis n' entendant rien bouger dana l' appartement, noua envoyona
chercher un aerrurier. On force la porte, et noua trouvona Ie corps d~
d'E--, encore chaud, coucM sur son lit, et troue de deux coupe de revolver.
I.e medecin, que noUB faiaona venir auaaitat, conatate que d'E-- avait
d'abord tente de 18 auicider en avalant un flacon de laudanum, et qu' enauite~
trouvant aana doute que Ie poiaon u' agiaaait pas aaaez vite, il s'etait tirO
deux coupe de revolver lI.la place du coour. D'apres la conatation medicale,
Is mort remontait lI. une heure environ. Sana que je puiaae preciaer I'heure
eucte, c'etait cependant une coincidence presqu' abaolue avec la lOi-diaant.
hallucination de Mme. B--. Sur la cheminee il y avait une lettre de
dE--, annon\l&Dt 11 M. et Mme. B-- aa resolution, lettre particuJillrement..
afectueuae pour Mme. B--.
GASTON FOURNIER.
L.-2345.-Ae Fa
From Mr.. S., who ia willing that her name should be given to anyone-
genuinely interested in this e&ae. She ia known to E.G., and iaanextremely
aenaible and clear·headed witneas, as far from.sentimentality or auperatition.
as can well be conceived.
October !lIth, 1885.
In 1874, I was ataying at Diiaaeldorf with my daughter, who had jual)
been to an eminent doctor in Bonn to have an operation performed on the
throat. My mother·in·law was also in Bonn, and, after the operation, had
runafter the cab containing my daughter and myaelf, and had given the former-
(who was a child at the time) a ten·thaler note, as a reward for the brave-
manner in whieb she had aubmitted to the operation. She was in excellent.
apirita, and laughed and joked with ua before parting. A day or two after-
wards I awoke, and laid to my daughter, who alept in the aame room, .. 0
)1-, I have had luch a dreadful dream. I dreamt your grandmother waa
deod." The terror caused by the dream WallO great that I felt compelled
to wake m1 daughter, though I know that in her condition this was most.
l1D1riae, as she waa atill adering from the effects of the operation. I felt I
Digitized by Google
\'.
100 JOllr1Ul1 0/&mIg/or P8!1Micai Rt>8eal·ch. [No•., 1885.
muat tell IOmeone. My daughter said it..,.. " only a dream," and told me
to go to sleep I wed how her throat WU, and ahe said it 11'&1 better. I
pulled out my watch from under the pillow, and found it 11'&1 between 3 ud
4 a.m. The following morning, at 10 o'clock, I received a telegram, telliDg
me to meet my mother-in·law'a aiater at Cologne Station. I did 10, ud
they broke to me the newa of my mother-in-law'a death, which had taken
place the previoua night. I had been in no IOrt of anxiety about her, and I
wu only told afterwards that ahe bad been au1f'ering for many yean from
.ome internal complaint, for which ahe had 1Mkm operated on on the dar
following that on which I laat aaw her. I 11'&1 totally ignorant that thia 'II'U
going to be done. Thia waa the only occuion on which I remember having
had a vivid and diatreuingdream of death.
M. S.
L.-~6.-Acl P.
From the aame lady aa No. 2345.
October 2'lfll. 1885.
On the Saturday before Eaater, 1881, my huaband left London for
Paria. On the Saturday or Sunday evening he waa taken ill, at the hotel,
and wandered about the place delirioUi. Subaequentlr he waa put in a room,
and although a man waa in attendance, he waa, in regard to medical advice,
&c., quite neglected. He remained there lOme daya, and by looking in hie
papers his name 11'&1 diacovered, and his family were communicatud with.
On the afternoon of Eaater Monday, my IOna and my daughter had gone
~ut, leaving me at home. I fell iuto an altogether extraordinary atate of
-depreuion and reatleuneu. I tried in vain to diatract myaelf with work and
books. I went upatairs and felt beaide myaelf with diatreu, for
what reaaon I could not tell; I argued with nlyaelf, but the feeling
increaaed. I even had a violent fit of weeping-a thing abaolutely alien to
my character. I then put on my thinga, and, in the hope of ridding myaelf
~f the uncomfortable feelini, took a hanaom cab, and drove about Hyde
Park for about three houra-a tlting which I ahould have conaidered myaelf
stark mad for doing at any other time. I ahould have been the laat person to
spend eight ahillinga on cab fare for nothing. On receiving the newa I wentover
to Paria, where I arrived on the Thursday, and my huaband juat knew me.
The nurse engagod to nurse him told me that ahe waa aaked by the waiter if
my Christian name waa M-- [Mrs. S.'a name, a not very common one],
.all that waa the name that my huaband 11'&1 conatantly calling out during hie
-delirium. He died lOme daya afterwarda.
M. S.
I leam from both Mrs. S. and her IOn that ahe mentioned her remarkable
experience to her family on the Monday evening. Her IOn writea ;-
I beg to corroborate my mother'a account of the circumatancea men-
tioned. Her diatreaa and the circumatancea of the cab-drive are entirely
foreign to her character. My father alwaya waa in delicate health, although
.a'lldoDl actually ill.
E. S.
Digitized by Google
No"., 1885.] Journal of Society lor P'!lchical RuMrc". 101
In answer to lOme questions addreued to MI'I. S., Mr. E. S. ropliu :--
My mother had no particular anxioty about my fathor'. health. He
left on the Saturday for Paria, and waa then in hia usual health; and ahe-
did not particularly connect her feelings with him."
L.-2347.-Ad pu
From Dr. Frank Comer, 79, Queen's Gate, South Kensington, S.W.
Ocrober 5th, 1885.
In the year 1820 or 1821, my grandfather, Gao. Miller, M.D., who was.
a physician practiaing in Newry, Ireland, emigrated with his fl\lllily to
Canada and settled in the town of Niagara, Upper Canada. On their way to
Niagara from Quebec, having reached the town of Prescot.t, which ia above
all the rapids of the St. Lawrence River, they then embarked on a sailing
vessel comlllanded by a Captain Pattel'lOn. As the voyage from Prescott to
Niagara in those days would probably occupy about a week, the p8III8ngera
would undoubtedly become pretty well acquainted with the captain of the
little veeael. About six or eight weeks after the arrival of my grandfather
and his family in Niagara, my grandmother (who, by the way, waa a lady of
more than ordinary sound practical common-seulO, and not at all visionary)
11'11 walking in an orchard at the back of her house, about 3 o'clock in the
afternoon, when Captain Pattel'lOu paaaed close by her and looked straight
in her face. At first ahe was dumbfounded, not having heard his foot·
8teps, but recovering from her surpriae she extended her hand to shake
hands with him, but he merely .miled and paaaed out of sight behind a small
out-building.
Upon grandfather's return home, my grandmothor told him of the
occurrence, but, he smiled and said ahe must have been dreaming aa Captain
Patterson and his vell81 were then at the other end of the Lake (Ontarioh
but she insiated that she waa wide awake, that it waa a clear bright afternoon,
and that she certainly had seen him or hia apparitiou. A few days later the
vell81 arrived in Niagara, and the mate who waa in charge reported that the
Captnin (pattel'lOn) had been waahen overboard during a gale at the lower
end of the lGke. Upon inquiry it turned out that it waa tho same day, and
(18 nearly aa could be judged) the very same hour that grandmother Miller-
had seen his apparition in the garden. My mother, MI'I. J. F. R. Comer,
WI8 a girl of 10 or 11 yeal'l at the time. and remembel'l her mother and
othel'l talking about the occurrence at the time and afterwards, and ahe
herself atill remembel'l Captain Patt.el'lOn. She ia now in her 76th year,
and ia again living in Niagara, Ontario, Canada.
FRANK COMBR.
Dr. Comer sent us the following extract from a letter written by his
mothor:-
In one or my Iettel'l 1 gave Frank an account of the drowning of Captain
Pattel'lOn, on hia aecond voyage up from Prescott, in a storm, and of my
mother seeing him pass near the black cherry-tree. It waa written, on a
aeparate aheet of paper. Did you not get it1 I mean the second voyage
after he brought my father's family from Prescott to Niagara.
Digitized by-Google
102 Journal C!f Societ,v for P8!1cMcai Ratnrch. ~Ol'., 1885.
L.-2348.-Ae Pu (Clairvoyance).
From Dr. Frank Comer, 79, Queen's Gate, S.W.
October 5th, 1885.
In November or December, 1865, at Kingston, Ontario, Canada, where
my father and family were then living, upon my return from lectures in the
Medical Department of Queen's University, a little after 6 one evening, I
found my poor father suft'ering intenle agony from a very violent attack of
neuralgia in hill head. I immediately brought out a C8IIe containing a little
hypodermic syringe and bottle of solution of morphia, intending to UIIe it
upon him at once, but I found there was little or none of the solution in
the bottle, so I ran oft' as fast as JX'8Bible to the nearest chemist's (about a
mile away) to get the bottle refilled. Returning about 15 minutes later,
I at once injected the morphia, and in a few minutes he had fallen asleep.
Shortly after this (certainly before half-past 7), I received a telegram
irom my brothar Alec, who was a physician living and practising at Tidioute.
Pennsylvania, U.S. (some 400 miles distant from Kingston, Ontario), asking
me if father was ill and to wire reply at once, which I did, stating that he
bad had a very levere attack of neuralgia, but was then sleeping quietly
.from a dose of morphia. In a letter from my brother a few days later, he
explained that on the evening on which he wired me he was returning home
from the oil wells shortly after six, and when paasing the house of a
'Mrs. --, a clairvoyante, she was just leaving her door, and said to him:
." Good evening, Doctor; your father is very ill," and then went on to
describe what was taking place, my finding him writhing in pain-taking
-down the little case and finding the bottle empty-rushing oft' to have it
filled-returning and giving him the hypodermic injection of morphia; and
finally tellinjt him, "now he is quiet and asleep." He went at once to the
telegraph office, and wired me as I have stated.
L.-2349.
From Miss W., who desires that her name may not be published.
- Rectory.
.A"!I'II.9t, 24th, 1885.
Being away from home for a day or two has prevented my replying at
~nce to your letter. The occurrence to which my brotherreferred happened
.as long ago as 12 years back, but was so impresaed upon my memory that I am
not likely to forget it. We were then living in an adjoining parish to this,
of which my father was vicar, and at that time there was no one else in the
house but my father and myself and two servants. We had all gone
.to our respective rooll18 at our usual time, and according to my custom I
had locked my door, and gone to sleep. I was suddenly awaked with a
distinct impreBBion that there was somebody present in the room standing
bv the side of my bed, close by. Such an indescribable horror came over
me that I remember shutting my eyes and covering up my face lest I might
lIee what I felt was in the room. While I was lying like this in the darknellll,
1;00 much frightened to light a candle, I heard the clock strike 3. I don't
know how lonl( I remained in this state of terror, but I never moved, and at
Digitized by Google
NOT.,l885.] Journall!f &cut!1 for Psgchical BellearcA. 103
last fell asleep. As soon as 1 went down atairs 1 immediately told my
father whata fright 1 bad hadat 3 o'clock. He said, .. This is very atrange
for 1have just been hearing the very same atory from Mr. K.It (the church-
warden living close by)-how he had been alarmed in the same way by think
ing some one was atanding by bia bed, and how he bad waked his wife, and
told her to look a~ the clock, for he knew they abould hear of aomething in
the morning. He brought the newa to my father that Mr. H., the
·other churchwarden, &lao a farmer in the parish, bad died unexpectedly
.at 3 a.m.
This is all, and perhaps when you have read it you will think the atory
hardly worth telling, aince there WRB really nothing aem, the preaence was
~Dly felt.
Mias W.'s brother, Mr. T. E. W., writing from the S... Stephen'a
.club, on September 24th, 1885, "ya, .. 1 WRB told of the ooourrenoo a very
short time after the time in question." He, however, imagined that the
ampreuiona bad both been visual.
Mias W. adds :-
&ptember SOth, 1885.
My brother is mistaken in suppoaing that I was conaciol1a of the presence
'Of Mr. H., or indeed of anyone in particular. 1 only felt that there was
_ one standing by my bedside, and only connected Mr. H. with my
viaitor after I had heard of his death. I bad told my atory to my father
lOme time before I heard the news. My father might confinn this. but being
'Old, and rather nervous now, 1 do not intend to mention the subject to him
'at all.
Mr. K.'a widow writes :-
October 3rd, 1885.
In answer to Mr. Wedgwood's letter of September 25th Mrs. K. begs
.to ltate that abe remembers very indistinctly lOme of the facta related,
in regard to Mr. H.'a death, but cannot ..y poaitively if it WRB as Mr.
Wedgwood afIirma, being 80 long ago. But a friend ..ya ahe remembers
diatinctly Mr. K. ..ying he laW lOme one by his bedside on the night in
oCtU8lltion.
L-2350.
From Mrs Malcolm, Wribbenhall, Bewdley.
Auguri 5th.
During the commencement of the year 1849 (I being then a young girl)
I had a tedious illneu. On one occasion, to relieve a congested lung, I had
a bliater applied, and in consequence was prevented on that night from ob-
taining aleep. One of my brothers was with the army in the Punjaub at that
time, and my thoughts were constantly with him, and doubtleu, I followed
"tho events of the war with intenae interest. On the night in question, being,
II I have said, wide awake, I was astonished by hearing the report of big
g\a. I raised myself in bed with lOme difficulty, and then continued to hear
the distant firing of cannon aometimes nearer, aometimes remote. At length
the guns ceased, but were succeeded by a &harp and rapid diacharge of
Digitized by Google
104 Journal of 8ociet!1 for PIJ!lc"ical RelJearch. [Nov., 1885.
musketry. The lOunda luted altogether about four houn. My grea
anxiety waa that lOme one should hear theee strange lOunda of battle as weII
as myae1f, but I waa forbidden at the time to leave my room, and hear-
ing my father coughing in his bedroom opposite, I pacified myaelf with the
auurance thathe must be awake and would hear what I heard. Great 1I'U
my mortification in the moming to find that neither he nor my mother went
aware of anything unusual having occurred in the night put.
Then myoid friend the doctor came in, inquiring laughingly whether I
waa growing fanciful (having been told my story). I also laughed and re-
plied, " You shall know if my battle is mere fancy when the next newa comes
from the seat of war in India."
Whether this was my fint connecting of the aounda I had liatened to
with an Indian battle, or whether I had done 10 during the continuance of
th088 sounda, is a point I am not now clear upon. But although the doctor.
when out of my hearing, deaired that I might not again be left alone at
night, it is observable that neither then nor at any later time was I rendered
the leaat nervous by my atrange experience, nor did I apprehend evil ID
the brother engaged in the campaign. In due time tidings of the I18vere
battle at Goojerat reached us, the day on which it waa fought, and houn.
allowing for difference of time, exactly coinciding with the date of my
prophetic battle. My brotber was in the thick of the fight, but eacaped.
unhurt.
GEORGIlU M..u.coLll.
In a later letter Mn. Malcolm saya :-
I send you a written testimony from one of my aiaters, aa to my
baving apoken of hearing the battle at the time of the occurrence. The
hoUl'll during which the aounda continued were from 1 to 5 o'clock a.m. in
the moming as far as my recollection aerves.
You must remember that at the time of the occurrence I was linng
in my father'a house in a very remote part of Warwickshire. The
neareat IOldien' quartan to us would be at Coventry or Birmingham, at a
distance of between 30 and 40 miles.
G. M..u.coLll.
The following is from a letter written to Mrs. Malcolm by her aiater :-
Ocrober 9th, 1885.
I remember the incident about the battle of Goojerat. You were ill at the
time, and in the moming you told us you felt as if you had been in a battle,
as you had heard continual firing and report of cannon for a long time. I
cannot. say what time of the night it waa when you heard it.
I think you made a note of it, and we heard afterwarda from Frank that
tho battle began on the following moming.
LuCY DIOXINS,
London Gazette, April 19th, 1849. Commander-in-Chief in India ID
Govemor-General of India. February 21st, 1849 :-" . . • . At 7 this
morning I moved to the attack, which commenced at half-past 8 o'clock, and
by 1 o'clock I waa in poaaesaion of the whole Sikh position, with all his
camp equipage, baggage, magazines, and, I hope, a large proportion of his
guna ; the exact number I cannot at present atate, from the great extent of
Digitized by Google
Nov., 188ii.] J00"'(1/ ql Socief!llor PsycMcal Resen/"cll. 105
his position and length of pursuit, as I followed up the enemy from 4 to I)
miles on the Bimber road, and pushed on Sir Joseph Thackwell with the
cavalry."
In a letter from the Governor-General of India to the Secret Committee of
the East India Company, a communication from the Commander-in-Chief is
quoted: "Their ranks broken, their position carried, their guns, ammuni-
tion, camp equipage, and baggage captured; their flying ll138IIes driven before
the victorious purauers from mid-day to dusk, receiving most severe punish-
ment in their flight. "
From these and other documents it appears that the battle lasted from
8.30 until midday, after which the purauit of the enemy commenced
lasting until dusk.
L.-2351. (Casual Thought-Transference.)
From M. Ch. Richet.
Oct"lJre 30, 1885.
Je n'ai obtenu qu'une Beule fois dallS de nombreuBes recherches sur la
lucidite des personnea mesmerisees, un resultat satisfaisant. C'est pre-
cisement dans une de mes premieres experiences, et elle est remarqllable,
car je ne l'ai jamais pu repeter, meme avec une approximation moindre.
tne jeune fille, convalescente, fut mise dans Ie sommeil magnetique, en
Novembre, 1872, par moi, a. I'Hotel-Dieu. Un jour vers 4 heure de l'apres-
midi j'amenai a....ec moi un jeune etudiant Americain de mes amis, M. Hearn.
M. Hearn n'avait jamais vu cetto jeune fille. Lorsque elle fut endormie, je
dis a. mon sujet magnetique: "Connai88ez-vous Ie nom de mon ami 1 "
(J'etais BUr de ne pas a....oir prononce son nom.) Elle se mit a. sourire.
"Non," me dit-elle. Puis, comme j'inBistais, elle ajouta : "Je ne Ie 1"uis
pas." J'illSiste encore, et elle me dit: "II Ya cinq lettres." "Eh bien !"
dis-je alors, "quelle est la premiere lettre 1" Alors elle, a. ....oix tres basso,
me dit, .. H." "Quelle est la secondo lettre 1" dis-je. " E." ., Et 11~
troisieme 1" " J e ne Ill. vois pas." Comme elle cherchait inutilement, je
dis, "P8880llS a. la quatrieme." "R." "Puis la cinquieme." "N."
J'ai essaya Ie lendemain d'autres experiences analogues avec Ie meme
eujet, mais 88118 succes. De meme plus tard, sallS succes, avec d'autres
personnes.
C'est pour cela que je ne l'a....ais pas publiee; mais maintenant que Ie fait
de cette f}wught-traluference semble bien prouva, je me crois autorise a. Ie
donner; car il rentre dallS un ellSemble de faits qui para.issent demontres, et
j'en ai ete tellement frappe que je me BOllviellS a....ec une precision absolue de
toutes lea circollStancea qui l'ont accompagne.
L.-2352 (Borderland).-Ad
From Mrs. Chermside, Regia House, Teignmouth.
Augtut, 1884,
E.B. was engaged to be married to H.D.O. He was a surgeon in the
Anny. Want of meallS on both sides delayed the marriage and he 8uddenly
caine to her one day to 8ay " good-bye" as he was ordered to take troops to
H
gitized by (.oogI
106 Journal of Society Jor PS!lchical Research. [Nov•• 1885.
Canada. He sailed, and ahe heard of his safe arrival. He spoke of his retum
in the following spring. One night, being the 28th December, she saw him
enter her room about midnight; a lightaeemed to shine about hinl. But he
WRI clothed completely in grave clothes. She sat up in bed and said, "Oh:
H., why are you so strangely dressed 1" He said "Do not laugh; this is
my new uniform." He then departed as he CaDle. She lay trembling all night
and weeping sadly. Next moming she refrained from telling her family u
they were opposed to her marriage; she, however,unburthened herself to me.
I tried to persuade her it was only a silly dream; however,the idea that her lover
was dead was most firmly fixed in her mind. A month after, she received the
news of his death on that very night, and that the last word he uttered 1I"U
her name. The whole thing took Buch poaaeuionofher thatahe slowly faded
away and died about two years afterwards.
The following is from notes taken by Professor Sidgwick during two
personal interviews with Mrs. ChermBide in September, 1884 ;-
.. The occurrence was in the winter of 1845. Mrs. ChermBide told me that
E.B. told her of the appearance the next morning. She (E.B.) was quite
sure that it was nota dream; and had no doubt that herfialld was dead. She
heard the details of his death within a month or BO -as Boon as letters then
came from Canada,-from one of his brother officers, and also from hiB sisters ;
and then wrote to tell Mrs.Chermaide that he had died the night that she uw
the apparition."
L.-2353.-Ad pn
From Mrs. Clerke, of Clifton Lodge, Farquhar Road, (Tpper Norwood, S.E.
October 3Ot1a, 1885.
In the month of August, 1864, about 3 or 4, o'clock in the aftemoon,
I was Bitting reading in the verandah of our house, in BarbadoeB. My black
nurse was driving my little girl, about 18 months or 80 old, in her perambu-
lator in the garden. I got up after Bome time to go into the houae, not
having noticed anything at. all-when thiB black woman said to me, "l\fiuia,
whowas thatgen~leman that was talking to you just now1" "There was no one
talkmg to me," I said. "Oh yeB, dere was, Miuia--a ",ery pale gentleman,
very tall, and he talked to you, and you was ",ery rude, for you never
answered him." I repeated there was no one, and got rather crou with the
woman, and she begged me to write down the day, for ahe kDew she bad
seen someone. I did, and in a few days I heard of the death of my brother
in Tobago. Now, the curious part iBthiB, that Ididnotaee him, but Bhe-a
stranger to him-did ; and ahe said that he Beemed very anxious for me to
notice him.
MAy CLERD.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Clerke sayB ;-
(1) The day of death was the same, for I wrote itdown. I think itW88
the 3rd August, but I know it was the III\Jlle.
(2) The description "very tall and pale .. was accurate.
(3) I had no idea that he was ill. He WRI only a few daYB ill.
(4) The woman had never Been him. She had been with me for about 18
months, and I conBidered her truthful. She had no objea in telling mt'.
Digitized by Google
No,..,lS83.] Journal of Societ!lfor P8.'Ickical1le8earch. 107
L.-2354.-Ad pn
The following narrative was obtained through the kindneu of Miss C. D.
Garnett, of Furze Hill Lodge, Brighton, from a cousin, Mrs. D., who prefen
that her own name should not be printed. Miss Garnett II&YS :-
I may safely say she never before or since had such a vision. She is
.thoroughly practical and unimaginative, not in the least excitable, and I re-
member well how puzzled ahc was for a loug time after. When she came
tome some time after, she was full of it, and described it to me most graphi-
-cally. She is almost like a sister to us, and I think diacuued this affair more
with us than with her own people. Her sister thought she was dreaming,
but her father was rather astonished whenshe told him of the vision the next
morniDg.
&ptemJJ.r 15th, 1885.
Some few years ago the occurrence took place which I am about to relate.
I was lying awake one night, my thoughts fixed on no particular subject,
when before me there seemed to rise the vision of the interior of a cathedral ;
the details which marked it from an ordinary church being clearly defined. In
the open apace before the chancel lay a coffin enveloped in its heavy black
pall. After a few moments (as it seemed to be) it faded gradually away. I
1I&t up and roused myself,as the whole scene was 80 real and strange, and I was
oonvinced I had not been asleep. I had not lain down long before the llame
acane again repeated itself upon my brain, in every detail exactly as I had
leen it before. The repetition of the vision (for Buch I firmly believe it was)
filled me with presentiments of trouble. and rousing my sister, who was sleep-
ing in the same room, I told her what I had seen; but 88 was natural,she con-
cluded I had been dreaming. Next morning at breakf88t I related what had
occurred, and it was remarked that we knew no one in England whose
funeral service would be likely to take place in a cathedral. Shortly after,
we received news by telegram of the sudden death of my brother in the West
Indies, and the day coincided with that on which I had Been the vision as
related. When the letters containing all details arrived we loamt
that he was buried the same day that he died in the evening,
the funeral service taking place in the Colonial Cathedral. Allow-
ing for the difference in time, it appears to have been 88 near lUI
}108Iible the llame time that I in England saw the whole scene represented,
the remembrance of which has remained indelibly printed on my memory.
J.D.
Inanswer to inquiries, Mrs. D. says:-
The dateof mybrother's death was February 21st,and88 farI can remember
I had the dream that evening, but it is so long since that as regards dates I do
not like to be too certain. AB regards thelength of timebetween the deathand
funeral, it was, I believe, only a few hours, certainly 10&8 than 12. The news
~fhia death reached us by telegram on February 28th, about a week later.
I have never had anything in the way of a vision either before or since. I
enclose the few lines from my sister on the subject,after having told her that
I had written you an account.
The Bister's words are :-
I corroborate the statement of my sister's dream of February, 1879, which.
abe narrated to me the morning after it occurred.
S.G.
Digitized by Google
108 Jourllal f?f Society for PsycMcal Research. [Nov., 18!l:\
L.-817
Since this story was printed in the October number of the Journal, n
have learnt further particulars about the accident from the Rev. W. A.
Purey-Cuet. He says: .. It is po88ible that the position of the ship may
not be quite accurate that day as I find [by reference to his diary] that it
'W88 worked by dead reckoning on that day, the sun not being visible. The
conrse of the ship during those days, July 10th-12th, was very e1T8tic,
as we had to run before the gale." . . "I find tb&t
July 12th, the day of Bale's death, was apparently the 0'1l1!l day during th..
voyage in which the position of the ship had to be found by dead reckoning."
The error in time arising in this way could not, however, bal"e
amounted to more than a minute or two, and Mr. Purey-Cuet gil'es particu-
lars which make it almost impo88ible that he can be mistaken in stating that
the accident occurred at (} p.m. by the ship·sclock. If,therefore, the accident
and the apparition coincided, the error muet be due to Miss Bale's observa-
tion or memory, or to the clock from which she took her time.
- - - - - - - - - - -
RED LIGHT.
Miss Bramston, who is an A880ciate of the Society, sends us an account
of an experience of a friend of hers, MiBS G. Horner, which is interesting ill
connection with the story No. 2343, printed in the October JUlIrIUlI.
Mi88 Bran18tou says: .. In your last Joumal there is an account of a
sympathetic dream about a red blaze in the room. It does not say where it
happened, but the story I enclose makes me think th<.re might be another
explanation, and that it might not have been a dream after all. I ha,-..
heard of these mine fires in Cornwall."
The story is as follows :-
Octobef" 21st [1885].
It was about five years ago, and I think in January, that I saw the light
which you call a .. mine fire." I was sitting by the window, in one of the
lower rooms, when I saw a light suddenly pass, about the same height from
the ground as one would generally carry a lantern_ Hearing afterwards that
no one had passed by, I cOll8idered it very remarkahle. It was about a week
later when I saw it again, at least, not the light but its reflection.
I was in bed, and about one o'clock at night the room became suddenly
lighted with a bright rod light, which was, to say the least of it, rather
startling. It seemed to be in the same place, but higher up and much brighrer
and redder than on the previous occasion. It muet have been very near the
wip.dow (which was about 10 feet from the ground), for the marks and
flaws on the glass were quite plainly reflected on the wall. I was very much
frightened when I saw it, thinking that some burglar was about to enter my
room through the window. But the light seemed to pass away as suddenly
&8 it camEl, leaving the room in total darkness 1\8 before.
The only explanation I ever heard was given me by a servant, whose
father was a miner in Zennor. She said that it was a kind of will-o'-the-
wisp, which appeared over ground in which tin or copper were to be found.
This seemed to be a natural explanation, as Zelmor was full of old mines
which had been worked many years ago, and stopped probably on account
of insufficient capital to carry them on. GERTRl'DE HORNER.
Noy., 1885.] Journal rif Bocietl/lor PS!lchical Research. 109
CORRESPONDENCE.
MR. SINNETl"S CIRCULAR.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL 01' THB SOCIETY FOR PSk'cmCAL RBsBACJUI.
DEAR Sm,-My attention 118. been drawn to a leaflet entitled "The
Society for Psychical Research and Madame Blavatsky," which appea1'll to
have been sent to many Membe1'8 and Auociate. of ourSociety. It consists
~f a "letter addreued by Mr. A. P. Sinnett to Light," and" reprinted
under the authority of the Council of the London Lodge of the Theosophi-
al Society."
Mr. Sinnett complains in this letter of the great delay in the publication
(If my Report ct-ncerning the alleged marvellous phenomena in connection
with the Theosophical Society. No one is chargeable for this delay but
myself, amd I du not blame Mr. Sinnett for having considered it a just cause
~f grievance. The Report might have been ready in August had it not been
that many documents in connection with the suhject were forwarded to me
by Mr. Hume, and these documents required a careful examination. The
delay is chiefly due to my examination of these documents, and especially of
a large IDaII8 of K. H. MSS., which they included. But while I
regret this delay, which I could not foresee at the end of June, as the docu-
ments in question had not then reached me, I am unable to see that the
general charges brought against Madame Blavatsky were not adequately
supported by the statements made at our meetings. It is true that it was
impossible for me then to go into detail concerning every single phenomenon
.which I investigated in India; and if Mr. Sinnett had merely complained
that I had expl'CBlled my opinion concerning the phenomena in their
entirety, whereas I had shown only that the most important of them were
fraudulently produced, I should have had nothing more to say beyond the
expression of my regret for the delay in the production of the full Report,
and the explanation of it which I have given.
But Mr. Sinnett seems to forget that the lll8in burden of the indictment
against Madame Blavataky was laid and supported at our first meeting, at
which Mr. Sinnett himself was not present. One of the principal charge.
against Madame Blavatsky had been brought against her by the authorities
of the Madraa Ch'rilltian College Magazill~, who published in September,
1884, portions of a series of lette1'8 which, if genuine, distinctly proved
that Madame Blavatsky had engaged in a conspiracy, which had extended
~\"er several yea1'8, for the production of spurious Ill8rvels. The editor of
the Chri8tian College Magazill~, before publhiliing these lette1'8, had obtained
the best evidence procurable at Madras as to the genuineness of their hand-
writing, and the various gentlemen to whom the lette1'8 were submitted were
unanimously of opinion that Madame Blavataky had written them. Mr. J.
D. B. Gribble, of Madras, wrote a pamphlet on the subject, giving his
reasons for coming to the same conclusion. Mr. F. G. Netherclift, the chief
caligraphic expert in England, had examined a large number of these lette1'8,
and had expressed biB unqualified conclusion that they were unquestionably
written by Madame Blavatllky. l\-Ir. Sims, of tho British Museum, expressed
.the same conclusion. The members of our Committee, including myself.
Digitized by Google
110 Journal Qf 801'iet!llor P8!Jcllicai Re8earc/,. [Nov., 1885..
were also of the same opinion concerning tlaem. At our meetings I gaTe
accounts of various phenomena as described to me by the witn8llll8ll, and
showed that there was clear evidence that theae phenomena were fraudulently
produced, and that abundant circumstantial evidence had been supplied by
Theosophists themselves which corroborated the opinion of experts as to the-
authorship of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters. Especially I went into con-
aiderable detail concerning the Shrine, and showed that it was manifest from
the statements of Theosophists that the Shrbe was fixed at the vety spot on
the wall most convenient for fraudulent purposes, that it had a sliding panel
at the back, and that there had been a hole in the wall behind the panel,
which communicated with Madame Blavatsky's bedroom. Yet Mr. Sinnett
writes :-
"A series of charges imputing misconduct of the blackest dye to
Madame Blavatsky have been made public on the &88umption that they
would ultimately be supported by certain testimony. But after more than
three months this testimony still remains unpublished."
Mr. Sinnett regards the evidence which I collected in India, "as far as.
this was foreshadowed" by my speech, as "worthleB8" ; with this I in a
certain sense agree, and it will be remembered that I gave instances at our
meetings of the absolute unreliability of some of the native witne88e8 whose
evidence I quoted. But if Mr. Sinnett thinks that the cumulative testimony
which shows that the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters are genuine, and that the
Shrine was, to use Mr. Sinnett's words, a "conjurer's box," is to be re-
garded as "worthieu," it is difficult to see what sort of testimony he would
regard as having any value. Mr. Sinnett himself baa, in mont than one
instance, relied on evidence supplied by apparent identity of handwriting.
The whole point of the "Jhelum telegram" incident recorded by him in
"The Occult World," turned upon the opinion-of Mr. Sinnett 1-that the
writing of a certain telegram was in the K. H. hand; and he baa laid
streas upon the fact that he baa received almost immediate K. H. com-
munications in supp08ed reply to his letters when Madame BJavatsky was at
the other side of India,-where again the whole force of the incident must
rest upon the fact that Mr. Sinnett recognised the writing as being in the
X. H. hand.
I may take this opportunity of removing one or two misapprehensions
which Mr. Sinnett baa shown in his letter. He appears to think that I ought
to have allowed Madame Blavatsky to see "the original letters alleged to be
hers," and he saYIl that hecannot reconcile my neglect in this matter with my
&88urance that I conducted my in'quity "with an open mind." Now in the-
:first place I had no authority to show these letters to Madame BlavatskYt
and Madame Blavatsky well knew that I had none. She frequently asked
me whether I had seen the letters myself, and slae knew that a considerable
time had elapsed before I had an opportunity of doing so, in consequence of,
the absence from Madras of the Editor of the Christian Cullege Magazine;.
and when I was first enabled to inspect them, I spoke to her of certain re-
strictions which were placed-I think quite rightly-upon my use of them.
Several of them I had in my own posseuion for a day or two only, for my
own examination. The remaining ones I examined in the house of a gentle-
man, in whose custody tlley were at the time, and two groups of tllem were
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1885.J Journal of Socil'fy for Psychical Researc". 111
eventually entrusted to me for the apecific purpoee of being sent to England
for the judgment of the beat caligraphic experta obtainable here (a fact of
which I did not think it neceaaary toinform Madame BlavatUy), under the
particular condition that they ahould be returned at lOOn aa poIIIible; and
they were actually sent back to India before my arrival in England. Thoae
which I had in my own poaaeaaion for a ahort time I waa requeated not to
take on my own reeponaibility to the headquartera of the Theoaophical
Society, the Editor of the CAriIti4n College Magazine being naturally appre-
henaive that Madame Blavataky might seize an opportunity of tampering
with them.* In the aecond place, Madame Blavataky had explicitly pro-
nounced certain portiona of them to be forgeriea, when they were firat pub-
liahed, and I ahould be aurpriaed to learn that ahe had ever expreBBed any
wiah to Bee the originala while I waa at Madraa. Had ahe done BO, I have
no doubt that BOme arrangement would have been made according to which
&he would have had the liberty of inapecting them in the presence of wit-
neuea. That I do not Bay thia unadviaedly ia sufficiently ahown by the fact
that BOme of the diaputed lettera were taken to the headquartera of tho
Society and ahown to Theoaophista, in September, 1884, in conaequence of a
request by lIajor-General Morgan to see the letter in which he was con-
cerned. The editor of the Chriatian CoUtge Magazine writes in the number
for April, 1885 :-
"We took with UI to headquartera four of the diaputed lettera, and
freely allowed all present to examine them. In return we aaked to be per-
mitted to see BOme of Madame Blavataky's recent lettera to Dr. HartmanlJ,
Damodar, or anyone at headquartera. This requeat waa complied with only
to the extent of ahowing UI a porlioo of a letter written from Paria. No
TlmosoPHIST HAB BVBR ASKED TO SBB ANY OTHER LErrER, or his request
W'Ould have been, under proper precautiona, at once complied with."
Further, Mr. Sinnett apeaka of my inquiries concerning the lettera aa
"carried on behind Madame Blavataky'a back." This I am quite at a losl to
underatand. It was perfectly well known at the headquartera of the Society
that I was taking the evidence of witneaaes, that I had interviewa with the
authoritiea of the ChNtian Col,kge Magazine, and alao with the Coulomba;
that I waa inveatigating all the circumatancea in connection with every
phenomenon BO far 1\8 it WI\8 poaaible for me to do so. Mr. Sinnett muat have
been strangely misinformed about the facts of the caae, and his miaappre-
hension baa already been once pointed out. In a letter to the Jo"rnal for
July, he spoke of my evidence as "collected in secret" (p. 4(2), and Pro-
feuor Sidgwick directed his attention to the fact "that we took care to make
it known to all concerned that Mr. Hodgaon had gone to India to collect this
evidence on behalf of our Society, and that his unfavourable view of the
evidence WI\8 communicated to the leading Theosophists at Madraa before his
departure from India" (p. 4(4). Yet, notwithatanding thia explicit state-
ment made by Profel8Or Sidgwick, Mr. Sinnett apparently repeats the
charge. H he will turn to p. 16 of the Official Report of the Theoaophical
Society for 1885, he will find that Colonel Olcott made the following state-
• I was allowed only a similar degree of liberty with certain documents which I
obtained from Theoeophists.
Digitized by Google
112 Journal f!f Societ!/ for P,gcllical Research. [Nov., Itl85.
ment before the Convention, shortly after my arrival. Speaking of the
officers of our Society, he said :-
" As an evidence of their sincere wish to learn the exact \,uue of our
Theosophical pretensions, they have sent a Special Commiaaioner to India to
take evidence upon the spot."
Another statement in Mr. Sinnett's letter seemB deserving of notice here,
lUI he made an allusion of a somewhat similar character at our meeting in
June. He speaks of my" unfamiliarity with India and Indian ways" as
baving led me .. into many serious mistakes." Of course I do not claim the
familiarity with India wbich Mr. Sinnett poasea8s, but I do not see how this
fact can n.1l'ect my investigation in tho way Mr. Sinnett lOOms to suppose. He
may, indeed, mean that I ougbt not to bave been surprised to find that
certain chelaa told me deliberate falsehoods, and thathad I been more familiar
with Indian w-ays I should have known that such falsohoods were the natural
outl!ome of •• Occultism." This I am not concerned to dispute; but if he
meansthat my unfamiliarity withIndia.and Indian ways rendcred me incapable
of taking down evidence correctly, of comparing documents and drawing
reasonable inferences, of examining envelopes which had been surreptitiously
opened, of carefully exploring the interstices of ceilings and other localities
where marvellous phenomena were alleged to have occurred, I must simply
join iaaue with hinl. It was, at any rate, not unfamiliarity with Indian ways
that led the Paraee gentleman, Mr. K. M. Seervai, formerly Vice-President
of the Theosophical Society at Bombay, to give up all connection with the
Society, or that led ?llr. S. K. Chatterjee, formerly President of tho Lahore
Branch, to declare that the Society was "a llUge imposture," or that led
Mr. A. O. Hume, long before the exposures of the Coulombs, to the opinion
that some of tlle c11~ were morally untrustworthy-that the Shrine was s
"conjurer's box "-and that many other of Madame Blavatsky's phenonulDl
were fraudulently produced, or that led Pundit Dayanund Saraawati, the
President of the Arya Somaj of India, to inform the public, in 1882, that
"neither Colonel Olcott nor Madame Blavatsky knows anything of Yog
Vidya (occult science) as practised by tho Yogis of old," and that "for them
to say that they perform their phenomena without apparatus, without any
secret pre-arrangement, and 801ely through the forces existing in nature
(electricity), and by what they call their •will-power,' is to tell a lie."
It is to be hoped that Mr. Sinnett's eagernOll in the cause he represents
will not prevent his taking due steps to ascertain the actual facta of any
other case to which he may refer; as I have no doubt that Mr. Sinnett
would hardly have impugned the impartiality of my investigation on
the ground that I did not show lIadame Blavatsky the "original letters
alleged to be hers," if he had been IIware that it was not in my power to do
so, and that Madame Blayatsky might have seen them had she requested
permiaaion from the persons whom she knew to be the custodians. There
has in truth been" blundering all along the line," lUI Mr. Sinnett says, and 1
for one have been sorry enough to think that the blundering is so greatly
chargeable to the enthusiast.ic careleBlDea of Mr. Sinnett, and his confidence
ill Madanle Blavatsky.-Yours sincerely,
RICHARD HODGs:>N.
October 31st, 1885.
Digitized by Google
N01'.,l685.] Journal qr 8oc~f!l.for P'!lchical Rt~arc". 113
To Use Editor oj tAc JOURNAL OF mE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DUB Sm,-Some time ago I received, through the post, a small book
entitled " Some Account of my Intercoune with Madame Blavatsk1 from
1872 to 1884," by Madame Coulomb. The book appears to have a truthful
•• ring" about it, and no reasonable man could question the evidence it con-
tains. Several of the tricks by which this lady imposed upon her devotees
were already familiar to me (especially that of the duplicate articles). In
fact, I have performed lOme of them myaolfat evening parties for amusement.
Many of the phenomena which will not come under the heading of •• tricks,"
may be explained by mental impressions induced by the will of the operator,
levera! caaes of which I observed reported in your ProcutiiugB, where
pelllOns have been forced to believe that they saw things which had no real
existence. I would not have referred to Madame Blavatsky now, only that I
received per last post a pamphlet or letter .. addressed by Mr. A. P. Sinnett
to Light, and reprinted under the authority of the Council of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society," which letter, after rejecting the evidence
of Mr. Hodgson, proceeds thus: "Havingduring the past few weeks spent
a good deal of time with Madame Blavatsky, and having minutely discuSled
with her all circumstances of darkest suspicion concerning her, I have re-
turned from these interviews entirely aBBUred in my own mind of her inno-
cence of the offences imputed to her by Mr. Hodgson." Now, Bir, if this
be the same Mr. A. P. Sinnett, ex-editor of the Pio"eer, mentioned on p. 33
of Madame Coulomb's revelationB, it only brings Madame Blavatsky'B
remarkable words tho more vividly before our mindB: .. To Jorce
th.nn to tum th~ir back upon me will tak~ more than th4! e.dlibitioll of a
puppet. I han a thm""nd stringB to my bow, Q1ul God HimselJ CQlud 7IOt open
th.e eyes oj t/wse who beliet)e in me." (U Some Account of my Intercourae,"
p. 47.) I also give the extract on p. 33 alluded to: ., In order that you may
easily understand how the letter Blipped through, I Bhall have to tell you
that the opening of the trap was performed by the pulling of a string, which
after running from the trap, where it was fastened, all along the g.lrret above
lb. Sinnett'Broom to that part of the garret above Madame Blavatsky'B
bedroom, p&8I8d through a hole and hung down behind the door and the
ClIrtain of her room, which wa'J adjoining to that of Mr. Sinnett."
It is painfully evident that Mr. Sinnett's eyes, at all events, have not been
"opened," but that he Btill clinga to "hie illustrioUB friend, Koot Hoomi.·
Before I cloBe I wish to observe that the letter of Mr. M. Theobald printed
in this month'B JOUrlial is to my mind most unsatisfactory. What doeB
he mean by saying" you mustfirst develop clairvoyance among your delegates
"before they can Bee in our houae either the actorB or tAe phenomena" 1 H
no one can aee the alleged "phenomena" even (leaving the actora out of
'lueation) except a person in an abnormal condition, then the whole matter
ia at once placed beyond invelltigation ; but Burely the Bpiritual tea could be
tasted, the celestial water examined, and the marvelloUB kettle put under
scientific tests before we are asked to swallow Buch statementB.-Youn
ttuly,
JOSEPH W. HAYES.
1 and 2, George'B Street, Enniscarthy, Co. Wexford.
19th October, 1885.
Digitized by Google
114 JOZlrnal qf Society for P8ychical Research. [Nov., 188.'10
OLD PHYSICAL PHENOMENA COMMITTEE.
To the Editor of the JOUR.."I'AL OJ' THE SOCIETY FOR PYscmCAL RBslWlCll.
SI8,-1 have leen with much regret the letter of Mr. Frank S. Hughesp
published in your last iaaue, in regard to the old Physical Phenomena Com-
mittee of the Society for Plychical Research. I hold it as a general principle,
which it is mostly right and wise to oblerve, that the work of a committe&
Ihould not be publicly diacuued except on ita report to the Council; but as
Mr. Hughes baa given his version of this Committee's proceedings, and as his;
ltatements are in my estimation leriously misleading, I must ask you to be
kind enough to alloW' me to offer lome remarks on the lubject.
I was one of the members of the old Physical Phenomena Committee, and
entered upon my duties in connection with it with considerable interes~. Mr.
Hughel was the secretary-not appointed by the Committee, who were left n~
choice in the matter, but by the Council. Like Mr. Hughes, I was under th&
impresaion that the Committee was not permitted to lpend the funds of the
Society in the employment of paid mediums. Professor Sidgwick _ya that
no expressresolution to that effect was ever passed by the Council. That is.
so no doubt-but the views of a body of gentlemen can often bereadily gauged
without an expreaaresolution, and there can be no question, I think, that Mr.
Hughes' understanding of the views of the Council was in Itrict accordance
with fact. " The consequence was," Mr. Hughes lays,
.. that we were compelled to have recourse to the asaiatance of friends of &
member of the Committee who were BUp~ to ~ mediumistic powers.
Results-table tilting. raps, &'c.-were obtained, which, if they could have
been obtained undersatisfactory testa, would have been conclusive; but as such
te&tscould not be applied, I myseU and other members of the Committee were
not convinced that these phenomena were not the result of fraud, conBcioDS or
uncoDBCiouB."
I cannot for a moment believe that Mr. Hughel would intentionally mis-
represent ; but the .statements I have quoted are at variance with the facts
nevertheless-a circumstance which appears to me to be explicable only on
the lupposition that the writer was incapable of correct oblervation, or that
he was the subject of a strong reluctance to be convinced by any evidence
whatsoever.
At the first meetings of the Committee we had no mediums present, and
there were no relults. In consequence of appeals that were made to me, I
took lOme members of my family to lubsequent meetings, but as they are
not medium'S fur anything more than slight table-movements, the results
were again valueless.
Having had 80 little SUCCIlIS hitherto, I was prell88d to try to induce my
friends, Mr. and Mr.. E., to attend at the next meeting, and they very
kindly agreed to do 80. Mrs. E. il a lady of whOle excellent mediumistie
powers I have had abundant evidence, on hundreds of occasions, during a.
course of several years. Without fee or reward af any kind whatever, and
often at great personal inconvenience, she baa always been ready to aasist
candid inquirers, in private seance, and it has never even been hinted, until
Mr. Hughes did 10, that ahe could be guilty of fraud .. conscious or
unconacioul."
Of the phenomena. which occurred at the Society'l rooms in the presenc&
Digitized by Google
No~.,l885.] Journal of Bociet!//or P8!lcllicnl Rellenrc!l. 115-
of Mrs. E., I speak only of those which occurred in good gas light. TIte
table used }YBS of peculiar conatruction. It was a circular table made for
the purpose-with the top and bottom exactly alike; the large, flat surface
on the ground making it impoaaible for any of the sitters to tilt it by
preaaure without the exercise of 80 much force as to be plainly observable, it.
being also impoaaible to insert the toe of a boot beneath the bottom edge.
After sitting a few minutes frequent raps were distinctly heard on the table
and on the floor, the vibrationa on the table being plainly felt by the handa
of the sitters. On the occurrence of these raps Mr. Hughee expreaaed bim-
eelf both surprised and gratified.
Again. we had clear and undoubted tiltinga of the table while the handa
ofall the sitters were in full view. Mr. Hughes says that satisfactory testa
could not be applied! But they were applied-though not at hi.8 suggestion,
but at the suggestion of l\lr. E. After we had had aeveral tiltinga of the table
it rose 'luite oft" the floor, and Mr. E. suggested, in ordllr that there might.
be no room for doubt as to the genuineneaa of the phenomena, that the menl-
bera of the circle should all stand up and place the tips only of their fingem
lightly lIpon the upper surface of the table. This was done, and the table
was not only lifted oft" the floor, and gently put down again, but was moved
in jerks along the floor a distance offrom 15 to 18inchea.
Mr. E. proposed another experiment. He said that in his own houae, if
the leaves of the table were drawn a little apart, what appeared to be fingers,
and felt like finget'P, were often pushed up from boneath, under the
cloth; and he suggeated that if a hole were cut in the table we were uaing,
that experiment might be tried at the next meeting of the CODmlittee. It
\t!(U tried and aucceeded ; and varioua members of the circle, if not all of
them, not only saw the movements, but felt the fingers or what they
declared to feel like fingers. Was this the result of fraud, as l\lr. Hughe&
seems to hint, either" conscioua or unconscious"I All the handa of the
circle were visible. Did one of the members, without the uae of his or her
handa, take oft" a boot, and thrust up his or her toes from beneath to the
level of the table top, while we all sat in full light and close together-and
that without being detected by Mr. Hughea or any body elae 1
Mr. Hughea saya thataatisfactory testa could not be applied, and therefore
hehimaelf" andother members of the Committee were not convinced that
these phenomena were not the result of fraud, conscious or unconscious."
But I have said enough to show that tllere was tbe fullest disposition to sub-
nut to every poaaible te'lt ; and certainly Mr. Hughes never expreued during
any of theae aittings the alightest doubt about the genuineneaa of the
phenomena, and never 110 much as hinted that tIte conditions observed were
in any degree unaatisfactory.-Yours faithfully,
E. DAWHON RooERS.
I agree with Mr. Rogers in regretting that the phrase" fraud consciQUS or
unconscious" was uaed in l\lr. Hughes' letter. If I had noticed it when the
JOCBNAL was p888ing through the preu, I should certainly have asked
~e writer to alter it : and I am glad to be able to state, after conversation.
With Mr. Hughes, that he had no intention of implying anything more than
~hat the evidence for the agency of extra-human intelligences was,
In his opinion, and in the opinion of other members of the COlllmittee, in-
conclusive. I may take this opportunity of makng a similar explanation witll
Digitized by Google
116 JOIWllal qf Societ!llor P8!ICMcnl Rt8earch. [80\'.,1885.
l'egard to a phraae of the aa.me kind used by Mr. Hughes in reference to the
.eancea held with Mr. Eglinton. In neither case had he any intention of
suggesting that there waa any poaitil1e evidence justifying a charge of fraud.
H. SIDGWICL
MR. DARIUS' MEDIUM.
To the Editm- oj the JOURNAL OF TIlE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RBluuBCJL
SIR,-In your Journal for August, 1885, I observe two communications,
-one from Mr. G. D. Haughton, 00 which is a reply by Mr Myers; in the
former is a paragraph referring to experiments conducted by myself, and in
the latter are remarks on Mr. Haughton's suggestions. As the remarks in
~ach case are brief I quote them, and ask your pennission to reply to the
-observations of Mr. Myers.
Mr. G. D. Haughton says (p 28): "There is, however, quite enough to
interest and engage them at home, if their hearts are in the cause. Why
-do they not investigate the case of Mr. Barkas, of Newcastle 1 He is a
-credible witness-tile people of Newcastle know him well, his antecedent.
would aa.tisfy even Mr. Davics. Now I want t() know why the Barkas caae,
.and the source of the replies made by an indifferently educated person to the
.abstruse questions propounded, as recorded in the columns of Light, are not
thoroughly and exhaustively e:u.mined 1 I suspect that a similar motive
rules here as in the Eglinton case. Is it not at all events apparent that
the Society is evading difficulties, not meeting them 1"
To which Mr. Myers replied (p. 31):-
" The automatic writing of an indifferently educated person (otherwise
"known as Mrs. Esperance), aa.id to be inspired by Humnur Stafford, and
recorded by Mr. Barkas. I have known Mr. Barkas since January, 1875,
mld, through his introduction, aa.t with this medium on October 16th, 17th,
:and 18th, 1875. I have also studied all her printed answers. I consider
the case curious and interesting, and I am not surprised at Mr. Barkas' view
-of it, but unfortunately the gross want of comprehension of the subjects
inquired about, and the palpable blunders wllich the replies contain, seem
to mo to preclude us from regarding them as affording evidence of the
.guidance of a scientific spirit.
" The fact, moreover, that the same medium, under the name of Mrs.
Esperance, was afterwards detected in personating a materialised spirit,
tended to discourage me from seeking further evidence tllrougll that channel."
1 desire very briefly to reply to tlle unintentionally unfair and illogi-
<Cal criticisms of Mr. Myers.
Tile first Itas reference to tile alleged" palpable blunders" in tile written
<communications, and the second to the alleged detection of the medium
.. in personating a materialised spirit."
I simply wish to aa.y in reference to the last charge that intelligent and
-experienced investigators, who were at the seance when tho sllpposed detec-
tion took place, deny the assertion utterly, and I personally affinn that if
the alleged personation really occurred it is not beyond experience that it
took place automatically and unconsciously so far as regards the mediwn. I
was not present at the seance, and cannot speak from personal observation,
Digitized by Google
Not'., 1885.] Journal fit BOClf!ty for P8.I/c"ical Re8earch. 11i
but if outsiders are to put the worst conatruction upon all the reported
occurrences in this world, f\!w will pass unscathed.
Pauing from this very doubtful alleged eXpo.!Iure, I now proceed to con-
aider Mr. Myers' criticismB of seances at which I was present, and verbatim
recorda of whioh I have preserved.
Mr. Myers sayB: "Unfortunately the gross want of oomprehenaion of
the Bubjects inquired about, and the palpable blunders whioh the replies
contain, Beem to me to preclude UB from regarding the case as affording
evidence of the guidance of a 80ientific Bpirit."
There are two methods of teBting the accuracy of the inferellC1!8 deduced
by Mr. !tlyers from his, as yet, limited knowledge of the facts.
He lIoIIIIerta that the anawers indicate a want of comprehenBion of the-
subjects, and that the erroneousness of some of the replieB precludes UB from
regarding them as being dictated by a 80ientific Bpirit.
All comprehension is relative. No human being, either in or out of the
fiesh, fuUy comprehends any Bubject, and imperfection therefore may be
looked for in the opinions of all
Mr. Myers will find, on referring to Light of February 21st, 1885, that
his recognition of erroneous replies is not original; I there point out the fact
of the occurrence of errors, and had Mr. Myers been more familiar with the
investigation he might have known that I devoted an evening to the correction
of the supposed errors, with and by Humner Stafford himself.
I would remind Mr. Myers that books carefully written, revised and
printed by eminent 80ientific men, on their own Bpecialities, are not free
from error. If he doubts this I shall have pleasure, when next he visits
Newcaatle, in showing him a book written by one of the moat eminent
acientific men now in the world, in which there are recorda of many alleged
original diaooveries, and many alleged new genera. named and figured, not
one of which is new, and not ODe of which is oorrect. Did this learned
acientist not write the book 1 Mr. Myers, to carry out hiB theory as applied
to the Wlpremeditated replies of Humnur Stafford, should anawer, "No,"
and he would be as likely to be right in the one case as in the other.
I Bhall be glad to submit the questions I asked through the uneducated
lady medium to any learned member of the Society for Psychical Research,
or to any man or woman whom they may nominate, and I venture to affirm
that he or she will not be able to anawer them so quiokly and correctly as.
they were answered by the hand of a very partially educated woman. Of
course I expect the anawerer to cover the entire field, and not confine him-
self or herself to a portion of the questiona only.
Newcaatle-on-Tyne,
October 3rd, 1885.
I &111, yours truly,
T. P. B.uuus.
Sm,-As the report which follows this lette(may seem to dispose of the
·'indifferently-educated" lady and Mr. "Humnur Stafford" in somewhat
trenchant fashion, I should just like to say that I do not think that there is
any reason to be astonished at the fact that some intelligent personB have
been disposed to attach value to these sadly erroneous responaes. The
Digitized by Google
118 JOl/rnal ~f 8ociet!lfor P8.lIcllical Re8earcll. [NoY., 18&\
'Phenomena of automatic writing are BO multifonn and perpluxing that we
need hardly cal1 llr. Barkas' view wholly unwarrantable.
It is, of course, poesible that a veritable Humnur Stafford may have 80 far
.abused his medium's imperfect education as to inspire her with I\IIIIwen
bearing this perilous similarity to misquotations from a superseded text-book.
And it is pomble, also, that when the lIR.JIle mediwn was caught (as BOrne at
least of the Spiritualists present admitted) in the Ret of personating &
materialised spirit, it may still have been Humnur Stafford, or BOme simibuiy
injudicious "control," who placed her, without her knowledge, in this
-equivocal position. But I fear that neither of these hypothelles ill sufficiently
strong in itBtllf to be used to support the other.
It would be difficult to find out (as Mr. Barkas suggests) to what extent
an ordinary well-educated person could answer the questions here proposed.
One characteristic of an educated person is to decline to talk about what he
-does not understand, and I am afraid that where .. Humnur" has rushed in
most of my unscientific acquaintances would fear to tread. As to myself, I do
not claim t.o be a "musical oracle" ; but my friend Mr. Mathews, a Senior
Wrangler and Professor of Mathematics, has kindly supplied BOme criticisms
<In .. Humnur," which may, I think, form a fitting conclusion to the
.controversy.-I am, sir, &c.,
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
REPORT ON "IMPROMPTU REPLIES THROUGH A LADY
PSYCHIC OF VERY LIMITED EDUCATION."
I have been asked to expre88 my opinion of the answers given by Mr.
Barkas' medium to a seriell of questions on scientific subjects, principally
acoustics and the theory of mueic. My opinion is that they exhibit just
that amount of knowledge, or rather of complicated ignorance, which
wmtld probably be acquired by a person of liulited education, but fairly
good verbal memory, after reading an old-fashioned treatise on acoustics, and
8upplementing the perusal by a hasty glance or two at some more modem
popular text-book.
A good many sentences in the answers appear to be more or 1888 UMUC-
ee88ful attempts to reproduce passages out of the text-books read, the
·quotation, in each case, being generally irrelevant to the question, and
probably suggested by BOrne catchword occurring in the latter. Having but
few books on the theory of BOund, and those not of a popular kind, I have
n:>t been able to refer these passages to any particular treatise; but the
internal evidence is fairly convincing, as I think the following examples will
1:Ihow: In seance No.5 (Light, March 14th, 1885), a question was asked
about the slnall hole made in the •• boot" of certain reed organ pipes in
<trder to bring them into tune. The explanation is: "Because in organ
pipes the souud is made to, I mean the air is made to vibrate by iBBuing
.from a small slit and striking on a sbarp cutting edge." The" small hole"
referred to in the question is mistaken for tbe aperture through which air is
forced into the pipe by the bellows, and we have a quotation, nearly a
ludicrous misquotation, of a description of the action of the mouthpiece of
.an organ pipe. This is quite irrelevant to the question, and it is followed
Digitized by Google
NOT.,l883.} Journnl qf Socl~t!l.for PS!lchical Research. 119
by the imbecile comment of the acientific intelligence himself: "This should
be done in evety case: I don't know why in reed organs alone, since it
"Would be an advantage in evety case." Again, in the IllUDe seance, the
queatio:>n, "What, in your opinion, is the origin of harmony 1" is declared to
-be vague, and .. reverted" into "What is the clliference between harmony
and noise 1" The term "harmony" is _then taken to be equivalent to
" mUBic" or "mUBical BOund," and we are treated to an explanation of this
entirely clliferent question, the pusage which follows being, in my opinion,
an obvious quotation, which is more accurate than usual.
It would be tedious, as well as IUperftuoUS, to examine all the answers in
detail ; they abound in wrong ideas, erroneous ltatement., and groll misUBe
of acientific terma; lOme of them are, to me, absolutely unintelligible jargon.
A:o.y one acquainted with the lubject. diBCUlled hal only to read the answers
-for himself in orderto bo convinced of the truth of the aBl8rtionj but for the
ake of readers unacquainted with &COUBtica, I will examine a few of thele
oommunications, and point out, as plainly as I can, lome of their
inaccuraciea.
1. Quution. What are harmonica1 ('th leance": Light, February
21at, 1885.)
.Anncer. By harmonica are meant those BOunda caused by the nodel or
"fentral aegment. ofstringed instrument. which occur in suceellion.
Comment. The term " harmonica" is not understood, and the answer is
lIhBolutely worthlell ; moreover, since a node of a string for any particular
form of vibration is a point of the Itring which does not share in that vibra-
tion, we are in effect told that BOunda are caused by parts of stringed instru-
ment. which are vibrating, or by those which are Mt vibrating. Finally,
harmonica are not confined to strillged instrument.. What il meant by the
-ooncluding relative claUBe, and to which of the preCtlding lubetanti\"81 it
refers, I am unable to say.
2. Question. H in a stopped pipe 0. hole be made at half.length, would
.itaffect the pitch, and to what extent 1 (Gth Mance.)
.Anncer. The pitch would not be affected, but the length of the wave
"Would be shortened by half.
Comment. This amount. to saying that tbe"pitchlwould 110t be altered,
but the note BOunded would be an octave higher than before.
The remaining examples will be taken from the Mance of AUgUBt 30th.
<Light, April 18th, 1885.)
3. The first queltion recorded &aka for an account of the method by
which the ratio of the specific heats of air for constant volume and constant
pressure reapectively may be found from the obeerved velocity of BOund, and
the velocity calculated by Newton's formula.
Mr. Barkaa and the guiding spirit both mistook "heat." for "beat.," in
-spite of the context, which ought to have set them right: the result is the
follOwing answer:-
"The ratio can only be calculated in this manner. Suppose two chords
to be struck, or two forks tuned at the IllUDe time : if the intensity of the
BOUnd be the same, or nearly the same, the beat. will occur in this manner:
Suppose one pulsation beat. at the rate of 228 per second, o.nd the other at
220, the beat. will reach the ear at the rate of 228-220==9 per second; this
Digitized by Google
120 Journal of Sociefy for Psychical Research. (Nov., 1885.
will give you eight beats per second, and is the utmost that can be carried
to the ear."
Evidently the word ~'beats," supposed to belong to the question, baa
been the only one to suggest any familiar passage of the text-books; 80 we
have an attempt to reproduce an explanation of the beats of jarring chords,
that is, the intervals of comparative silence produced by the interferenoe of
the vibrations of two bodies nearly in unison. This, of course, baa
nothing to do with the question; and, takingthe answer on its own merita,
there is a blunder in eve~ sentence. For" chords" I suppose we must
read" strings" or "notes,' and for "tuned" subatitute "Bet in vibration";
to say that "one pulsation beats " at such and such a rate is mere nonsense;
and the crowning absurdity is achieved in the last Bentence, where "beats"
have been confounded with" vibrations," and the eight beatB per second
have imperfectly recalled the lowest rate of vibration neceaaary to produoe
the impre88ion of a musical Bound.
4. Question. When a musical note is vibrating at 300 per second, and
another at 200 per second, they produce a fifth. If the note which \\"88
sounded at 200 be raised to 201, at what number will the beat occur for the
first time 1
An.tlrer. At exactly the aamenumber as in the first case, but a beat over
the original number will be BOunded, but that beat would be one octave
lower than tlle first ones.
Comment. Utter nonsense from beginning to end. In the last clause,
pitch, which depends on the time occupied by each of a set of isochronous
vibrations, is here actually attributed to an interval of silence, or if •• beat ..
be taken to mean" vibration,'" to a lIingk vibration.
Then come some questions on musicru intervals, and here, as might be
expected, Mr. -- Humnur Stafford -- completely breaks down. The
only fragments of correct information I have been able to discover are
" From C to D is a major tone," alld "I do not understand the terms you
use." To illustrate the truth of tlle latter statement, take the explanation
of a comllla (the difference between a major and a minor tone): "That
cessation of all sound caused by the coincidence and interference of BOund-
waves." What suggested this extraordinary answer I cannot say, unle88 the
ordinary meaning of the word, as a mark of punct.uation, suggested that it
ought, in music, to denote a pause of some kind.
So much for the amount of knowledge of sound and music posaesaed by
this dillembodied intelligence. It is only fair to add that he is conscious of
its imperfection, and desirous of improving it. Thus we read: "I am not
so well acquainted with optics as you imagine, and will Mt'e to study a liU~~
moTll, or mtlier to rake my mem,ory Ol't'l', to be able to answer your question,
&C. ; and again: "I best understand the organ, piano, and harmonium ; the
conversation can be on these or optics. IMt'e been getting tip that,80 if you
have any questions, I shall be glad to answer them."
Mr. Barkas seems to be afraid that clever unbtllievers, such as Me11lII'S.
Proctor and Lankester, will try to make out" that the medium is clever, and
well acquainted with the topics introduced." I do not think he need be in
any fear on this point. He also &l8erts that Blost E'ducated people would
miserably fail. in comparison with the controlled hand of the medium, in
answering these questions impromptu. They might do BO, I grant, in
picturesquene88 and piquancy, scarcely in accuracy, especially if they
enjoyed the privilege, accorded to Mr.-- Humnur Stafford--, of
receiving due notice beforehand, so as to be able to get up the subject.
Finally, I cannot refrain from asking why the opinion of the eminent.
profe88or of music, who proposed the questions, has not been recorded.
G. B. MATHEWS.
University College. Bangor.
October 20th, 1885.
Digitized by Google
