{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1davide_d_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Davide D Probable NDE 2372","mylang":"de"}
          	        Davide D Probable NDE 2372  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Davide D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						811  Davide D Probable NDE  2372  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>  					In Ivrea (Torino), there is the house of my mother's grandparents. My grandfather was dead and I had never known him.  Near this house, there is a big meadow that ends with a little step street and at the end of it there is a walk. In my dream (but dream because I remember about it until today), I was in the meadow. Next to me, there was my grandfather, Mario, holding my hand.

The meadow was a bright green as it was shining its own light. We walk throughout the meadow and arrive up to the climb, I am happy and feeling good to be with my grandfather .I would go with him. He lifts my hand and says to me that it isn't yet the moment.  At the top of the climb, there was a strong but non-blinding light. Then, he (my grandfather) sets out throughout the climb and I wake up. Since that moment, I don't remember anymore, but my mother said me that I told her, 'Mother, I've seen grandfather Mario. I would have gone with him but he didn't want.' A few moments later, the doctor came and said that I was lucky to be alive.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    22 o 23 snni fa

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Yes, I was very sick.  I had a very high fever.  The doctor tells my mother to be thankful she has a strong son or he would have died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?     Less consciousness and alertness than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was not alert. I was not conscious of the real world.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I didn't see the "real world" but only did remember the more luminous, vivid colors. I saw another situation with bright colors.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Yes, my grandfather who had died before I was born.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Yes, in my dream my grandfather and I were walking towards the light. It was brilliant and came from the direction of the summit of the rise in the meadow.   Everything was more brilliant and the light came from one direction (from the top of the meadow's climb) towards the direction where I and my grandfather were going.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     erano luoghi esistenti nella vita reale (Ivrea in provincia di Torino) ma diversi per bellezza e luce

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happiness, wellbeing, joy, wanted to pursue the experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   nessuna.avevo 4 anni.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     I was only 4 years old and I didn't even know about God's possible existence and I certainly didn't know that the death existed.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I was only 4 years old and I didn't even know about God's possible existence and I certainly didn't know that the death existed.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     When I was a small child, I told my mother that I see people in the house. About ten years later, I saw something that I don't yet know as to identify it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The entire experience was meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Yes, after the dream, with my mother, who cried. I spoke several times about it.  During my adolescence, I talked again about it and people looked at me incredulous.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Experience was definitely real. I was 4 years old.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was probably real.     I have some doubt: Did I dream or did I really experience something of the other part?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There is not a lot to add there. The experience was brief but intense. The place really exists in Ivrea (TO).

                                          					  					</p>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1davide_d_possible_nde.html