{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1davida_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Davida A NDE 2930","mylang":"de"}
          	        Davida A NDE 2930  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Davida A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1021  Davida A NDE  2930  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had a surgery to repair a ventral hernia in my abdomen. The surgery went fine but the doctor never did tell me and never did advise me to stop taking my birth control pills before or after the surgery. The days following my surgery I had noticed that I would be awaken at night by discomfort in my side. I dismissed it as being related to just having surgery, so I would take the pain medication prescribed to me; and the pain would go away. For a few more days, I started experiencing shortness of breath and once again thought it was due to my body recovering from surgery. I remembered what the doctor told me on my last visit to him. He said to call if I have any unusual experiences and I did. When I called his office, I left a message and my call was returned. The receptionist or nurse who returned my call was very defiant towards me calling and wanting to see the doctor. She told me that I just inhaled too much pollen while I was outside and that I just needed to rest instead of coming to see the doctor and to call another doctor. I was frustrated because I knew something was wrong with me so I called my family doctor.

He asked me if I could come into his office. So I got dressed and started driving to his office. All the while, there was a white and grey bird flying in front of the car as if he was guiding me to the doctor's office. I was so weary and tired from being short of breath that I don't remember how I got there except for following the bird. My family doctor looked me over and asked if I could drive myself to the emergency room or did I want to call someone. I said I would drive. When I went back outside and started driving again that same bird was flying in front of me again leading me to the hospital. When I got near the hospital, the bird landed on the side of the road and looked at me and I looked at him and watched him as I drove onto the street of the hospital and then he flew away. At that hospital emergency room, I was treated very coldly and was told to go to another part of the hospital to get my test done. My family doctor told me to go to the emergency room and have my test done there and to show them his request on the paper that he had gave me.

I was walking and everyone (doctors, nurses) passed me like I was nothing. I lost my color, was leaning on the rails of the walls trying to walk, and was very, very short of breath and no one looked my way to ask if I needed help. I felt so sad inside and worthless from how they looked at me and wanted to just die and give up. Then all of a sudden, two ladies who worked at the hospital (not nurses or doctors) came up to me and asked me if I need help, and made me stop walking. One stayed with me while the other went to get me a wheelchair. The one who stayed with me pushed me to the place to get lab work done. I remembered her face and knew she was sent by God to help me. Long story short, the people who did my lab work said they couldn't see anything on my chest x-ray and that I was fine and just needed rest. I went home and rested.

Later on that night, I felt I had the need to burp cause of the feeling of fullness in my chest. I tried to burp the feeling away but it became more pressure. I went to the restroom and was feeling so heavy and weird while I was walking back to my room. I looked over at my mother in her room and slurred to her to call the ambulance. I sat on my bed and the pains began, so sharp so intense. I could hear my mother calling my dad to come and he was talking to me shaking me trying to undo my arms from twisting distortedly from me being in pain. Everything started going black and white. Then in slow motion and I could see as if my soul was pulling backwards from out of my body, like I was looking through my eyes but being pulled backwards. I was looking at my mother and tried to reach to her, but she was looking at me in awe like she saw my soul leaving me too. Then all of a sudden everything went normal, like I was thrown back in my body and I could now smell apple cider vinegar all around me. I didn't even know my dad had ran to the kitchen and poured it around my nose and body. Why? I never asked him why. I guess something in him told him to do that.

The ambulance was called and I was on my way to a different hospital. They diagnosed me as having seven blood clots, some in my upper and lower lungs. While I was in the hospital, I didn't feel any pain at all, stayed alone at the hospital every night by myself. But every night I would feel the motion like I was being rocked to sleep and the feeling that I wasn't in my hospital room alone, I just knew Jesus was there with me - a feeling of comfort and peace beyond. In the mornings, the birds would come to my window and chirp melodies of peace. One day while I was lying in my hospital bed. I got this message or feeling if you will - it was like it was just in my head. The message was to tell the priest and churches that they should not be paid for preaching words that aren't theirs; that they should not receive any money for preaching God's words; and that the seven blood clots in me represented the seven churches in the Book of Revelations. I didn't know what that meant until I later read Revelations when I had gotten back home from the hospital. There is so much more to my story but I must end now.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 April 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         blood clots were passing through my heart into my lungs  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had really sharp, intense pains as if there were thousands of tiny needles being thrown through my body and were piercing through my chest and back every time I tried to breathe or exhale. Like I was being stabbed repeatedly over and over while the clots were passing through my heart.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After the clots had passed through my heart I could smell the apple cider vinegar and hear all what was going on around me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After the clots had passed through my heart I could smell the apple cider vinegar and hear all what was going on around me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I don't know exactly how long it took for me to come back to from feeling like I was leaving my body.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear contacts and my vision had become crystal clear.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was loud and everything was heard crystal clear - I could hear the TV playing in the other room.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace and calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   just believed in God  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray and talk to God more.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I believe in God and Jesus Christ. I believe that God is, was, and is yet to come.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray and talk to God more.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That the life we have within us is to be lived and that we are all going to sin. But those that keep the faith and believe in their hearts about and who God and Jesus really are - that in your beliefs you will have everlasting life. The faith of a mustard seed is greater than that of a man who knows but knows not the Lord.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I care for people now, even my enemies, and understand that everyone will make mistakes. I am not to judge but to love and encourage positive thinking in them.  

After the NDE:     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can hold a person's hand and just know things about them that come in mental pictures or just feelings. I can't explain how I know. Sometimes I talk in tongues when I pray for healing over things. I don't know what the words are but they bring heat to me and what I am touching. I think what it is I am saying in my mind, but I can't even begin to describe what language it is that I speak in when doing so.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The events that took place in the hospital. The rocking movement like my hospital bed was up in the air moving from side to side and before I knew it I was sleeping and waking to a new day - feeling less afraid of what I went through.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't know how long but they are either scared of me or compelled to know more about me. They changed their way of thinking and how they were living their lives, started let go of the past in some circumstances, got rid of guilty feelings and began to pray more.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was in a car accident in 1991 and came close to death. I had many occurrences of dΘjα vu and the knowledge of just knowing things, but it frightened me. I prayed to God to take that knowledge away from me and he did. It scared me too much.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because after I got out of the hospital and had gone to my son's school to visit for parent reader day I saw the lady who had stayed with me at the hospital while the other one went to go get me the wheelchair. all of a sudden out of nowhere it felt like someone poured warm liquid Jell-O like fluid all over me - a burning sensation within me - all I could do was hug her and cry. Very, very assuring that yes it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still view it as the same as I did before. Still can't talk about it without getting the feeling that Jesus is near me and brings tears to my eyes every time I talk about it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is more but time won't permit me to tell all.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1davida_a_nde.html