{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_se_nde.html","mytitle":"David Se NDE 2575","mylang":"de"}
          	        David Se NDE 2575  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David Se NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						829  David Se NDE  2575  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On or around June 12th 1979, I was walking across a parking lot. I looked up and a speeding van hit me and carried me about seventy-five feet across the parking lot into a muddy lot adjoining the paved one, it was a new strip mall not completely finished. The van continued into the muddy lot until it became stuck, then tried to back up and run over me again. The van could not move after that. I was very fortunate I only received superficial wounds and a broken nose. When the van hit me, I was strong enough to grab on to the grill as I went down and was pulled partially under, approximately seventy percent. The thing I have a problem with it is that I watched the whole thing from the side walk and can remember thanking God that it became stuck and did not take my life. Then I was back under the van and woke up at the local hospital. End of story?

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1979  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Hit by van.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was watching what was going on from the side walk.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   It was like it all took place in slow motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was very clear like watching a movie on a big screen.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Things seemed to be louder.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Things out of my field of vision seemed to be very bright.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy as heck I was still alive!!  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I couldn't believe I was watching what was taking place before my eyes.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day my wife just gave me a puzzled look when I tried to describe what took place.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just in general stories nothing specific.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was a blessing from God because I was not supposed to live after a hit like that!  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel today that it was a message to me that it was not my time to die and I can recall it like it happened yesterday.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Dreams from time to time but I can recall the entire dream and I say this because when it happens I see things clearer than normal everything is crisp.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_se_nde.html