{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dawn_k_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Dawn K Possible NDE 3378","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dawn K Possible NDE 3378  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dawn K Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1323 Dawn K Possible NDE 3378  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had surgery October 25th 2006. I was sent home October 28, 2006, at which time I know now that I had a leak in the stomach which lead up to the November 2, 2006 experience. My husband took me to the emergency room my surgeon was called before we went and knew I was on my way. He said to have them call him when I got there. I left my home with a 104 temperature. Pains in my back were very terrible. Pain in my arm, which had moved upwards. The pain in the back would not go away and I could not get comfortable in any way. It took an hour to get to the emergency room. We got there, checked in, and told them to call my surgeon. The lady said we are too busy you will be seen and we will go from there. Well after two-plus hours, maybe longer, in the waiting area I was getting worse and worse, when they finally called me back the lady gave me some Tylenol and I my temperature was still 104. I was in so much pain. I was taken to a room, which they had me lie down, I was so uncomfortable, and in pain they gave me a shot of morphine and I still was in pain, it did not help at all.

After hours, (we got there in the emergency room at 7:45 or 8:00 pm) by now, it was midnight. A doctor came in and asked me I think some questions and then sent me for tests and more tests and was sent back to the room. I could not even walk so my husband had to carry me to the bathroom and carry me back. I then was screaming and my husband just prior had really thought okay she's sick, but at this point of me screaming it got his attention good. I called my youngest daughter and told her I was fading away. I didn't call my oldest daughter nor my dear mother and I am not sure why not. After talking with my daughter, I ended up fading, getting sicker and sicker. The doctor came in and said well you may have a bladder or kidney infection. I asked him to call my surgeon and he refused, he said I am taking care of you and I will see what I come up with.

I then raised my shirt and said I just had surgery eight days ago, you should have seen his face. 'Oh my gosh,' he said. I had like twenty-two staples in my stomach (he never looked at my paperwork nor read my history). He left and then I am not sure what all went on with him, but I yelled at my husband that I need my surgeon and to go tell someone. I am so sick I need someone who knows what they are doing, I need help please I need help. My husband went out to the desk from my room they had me in and told the lady we need my wife's surgeon called. He was called.  Come to find out that he was waiting for a call back and had fallen asleep - they never called him as I requested when I got there.

As I lay in the room, I could tell I was passing (as I say). This is when I had my NDE. I could see white fluffy like large things I would compare them to clouds I guess and I was being pulled through something. Tunnel, I am not sure, but the light was becoming more and brighter, very bright. I was squinting my eyes and could not take the light. Some force, as I say, as I am not sure how to really explain it, was pulling and pulling and I was pushing and pushing even as sick as I was. Somehow, I kept pushing myself away from the light and kept doing so, but the light was so bright. Even now, as I tell about it, I squinted.  It hurt my eyes so bad. To this day I have a hard time with light for months and months after this it was worse, I was sick a total of twelve months. So the light was ever so bright and the force pulling I fought. Boy, did I fight.

The next thing I remember was my surgeon screaming and yelling to get the director of the hospital - this is my patient and the doctor should have been let go before - he did the wrong tests on my patient, and didn't call, and we need to get a life line in Mrs. K and get her prepped for emergency surgery. My surgeon was wheeling me up the hall, down the halls, in the elevator, out, and into a room and back out and screaming at people. We got to an area where I saw an older man staring at me and watching every movement being made. I was unsure who this person was, but found out it was the director of the hospital and he apologized to my husband for the treatment in the emergency room.

Eight hours later here I was going into emergency surgery not knowing if I would live or die. My husband was left alone to wait while I was in surgery. To not make this any longer I ended up with an abscess in my stomach and the cavity of my stomach was filling up with bile I guess. I was in the intensive care unit for two or three days and then moved to a room. I was in hospital for eighteen days and four surgeries later, at one point I had my stomach wide open for three days, and they would not take the tube out of my nose or the life line in my neck, they thought I was going to die. One doctor told me you are so lucky to be alive. Your good health and age saved you. I did end up going home and having a fistula in my stomach that would not heal and after nine months of not eating or drinking anything, as it would come out the hole above my belly button.

I had surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota and the doctor saved me. As of July 2007, I was able to eat. Mind you on that late early morning of November 2/3 2006, when they did emergency surgery, they put a feeding tube in me and I had the feeding tube until August 20, 2007. I was hooked up to a machine at night and it would pump three or four cans in me a night. Not fun. Very hard on my family and me. I am alive and did experience something that to this day puzzles me and I just can't handle light or sun that's bright. It hurts my eyes and I get a headache. I did not see anyone or anything besides the bright light and puffy cloud like things. I thank you for letting me explain this. I have been curious what I experienced. Now, I am well enough to search if anyone else has had this experience.

Great website. Thanks again. I have life and live it by the second now. Dawn K.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/02/06

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness, I squint all the time now, when in hospital had wash cloth over eyes and doctor got mad at me, he didn't think I needed to be doing that. I just could not take light at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel-like is how I would explain.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very, very much so, terribly bright, hurting bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was fighting to not be pulled into the light that was getting brighter and brighter.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Lutheran

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Lutheran

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was fighting whatever was pulling me towards the light.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Closer to family and you just never know what could happen. Take every minute and cherish it. Let things go, I use to be such a perfectionist and I have let things not bother me and take it as it is.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To explain what the white puffy things I seen like clouds. The light was so sooooo bright.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Fighting to not be pulled inward.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few weeks; I thought about it but was so sick I didn't care at the time. Others were interested and said really 'wow' or what else happened? I myself had heard of it but really didn't know anything until it happen to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Reality is light now hurts my eyes and I get headaches and I was slowing passing. I was so sick and was lying there for eight hours or more until my surgeon came because of the carelessness of people. He fell asleep and then happen to wake up and call the emergency room and there I was. He flew in let me tell you, he was one upset man. The doctor who was examining me no longer works there either.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Light hurts my eyes and headaches. It was real the light was so bright.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish I knew what it was. What's with the bright blinding light? Where was I headed and I was so sick how did my body fight so hard to stay alive?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Great website - everything was good.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dawn_k_possible_nde.html