{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_w_nde.html","mytitle":"David W NDE 797","mylang":"de"}
          	        David W NDE 797  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						315  David W NDE  797  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was in July 1987. I was fifteen years old and my parents had sent me to a summer camp in North Carolina (USA).


I have a physical problem that when I pass from a lying or seated position to the standing position, the blood ebbs from my head downwards to the body.  This phenomenon is accentuated by the heat, fatigue and the speed of the position change. It results in a blurred vision or makes me off balance.  Sometimes, it can even go on until the loss of consciousness, even though it only lasts some seconds.


Right after lunch, I was on my bed reading when one of my friends asked me to lend him a pen. I immediately rose to get one off the top of my shelf.  At the time of seizing the pen, I had a strong hypotension and lost consciousness.  I fell unconscious before touching the ground. I have the memory of the plunk that my head made when it made contact with the ground, but without physical sensation or pain.


The fall in itself was not problematic. What was more, was that the shock of my head against the ground caused me to choke on my tongue and go into convulsions.  During that time, I had no consciousness, that it happened.  I had an impression of so much peace and tranquility.


First of all, I had a flashback of all my past life. One would have said slides bombarded at full speed without interruption. To my big astonishment, I reviewed episodes of my life that I had forgotten completely. I had the impression that it lasted between forty minutes and one hour. Then, I had an impression of big serenity, of big tranquility. A few as if I was disconnected from my five senses, without any perception of the outside world. I didn't see anything, didn't hear anything, didn't feel anything, didn't touch anything. In summary, a big interior peace, with the impression to melt progressively into nothing, nearly of more to exist.


Then, I reopened the eyes to discover about ten people that looked at me without I my knowing why. One explained to me about the fall, the swallowed tongue, the convulsions, the fact that one of my comrades succeeded quickly in clearing my airway.  When I asked how long my unawareness had lasted, one answered me at most about ten seconds, to my big astonishment. I had the impression the experience lasted at least one hour.


Thereafter, I have regret not to have noted the flashes that had come back to me because the memory evaporated after a few days. I remember more of the experience, but not of the content of the flashes.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1987

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     J'ai fait de l'hypotension hortostatique. Suite à cette baisse soudaine de tension, je me suis évanoui et je suis tombé d'une hauteur d'environ 1m50. Lorsque ma tête a heurté le sol, alors que j'étais déjà inconscient, j'ai avalé ma langue.   Inconscient, allongé sur le sol, et ayant avalé ma langue.I had swallowed my tongue and I was entered convulsions while being unconscious. If someone had not withdrawn my tongue from my throat in the seconds that followed, I would have died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A big interior peace. Of serenity.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Events that I had forgotten completely reappeared under the shape of flashbacks. Unfortunately, their memory faded, to disappear completely at the end of some days.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   J'étais athée

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Je suis agnostique

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     It didn't affect my religious belief. I don't always have the faith.  On the other hand, it has left me without fear of death.  I am more aware of my own mortality. It gave me the impression that the death was a sort of nothing. Something similar to the state preceding our birth. There was not anything before; there won't be anything after. Nothing dramatic to it for as much:  before existing, I didn't feel anything (and for reason!); and long after my death, one will come back to this state.  Since, I really appreciate being alive, I savor every second that passes. Otherwise, I had the feeling I was given a second chance. I promised myself not to waste it and to try to be as good as possible with my neighbor. In a certain manner, I had the impression to have known death before to be allowed to pursue my life. It permits to see the things of manner a lot more detached and to relativize a lot.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best:  a feeling of liberation opposite the death, or even a feeling of invulnerability. At the time, one has the impression that it was a little intoxicating to have won a fight against the grim reaper.  Nothing else on earth can get to you.  A feeling like a light euphoria.  The worse:  the conscience of my own mortality. Even though I had the impression to have deceived death temporarily, I acquired the certainty knowledge how, sooner or later, it is all going to end. No paradise, of hell or resurrection; just nothing. I am a little irritated when I think about everything that I am going to miss of the future of the humanity. But good, it is already well to be here again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I didn't speak of this experience to my parents until years later.  No real reaction of their part.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_w_nde.html