{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_r_nde.html","mytitle":"David R NDE 863","mylang":"de"}
          	        David R NDE 863  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						351  David R NDE  863  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was about 10:00 a.m. Saturday morning 15 February 2003; I was in my kitchen waiting for a kettle to boil for a cup of tea before I went out. I had a stiff neck and then severe chest pain. The pains increased across my chest and down my left arm, I was hot and sweating and unable to talk. (I live alone so there was no one for me to call out to.)  I slumped to the floor as the pain increased. Sweating and gasping for breath, I became weaker. I reached a point that the pain was so bad that I said to myself that 'I don’t know what is happening but whatever it is it is killing me.' I could feel myself dying. I knew it was unmistakable, the feeling of my life ebbing away was very clear, whilst lying on the floor there seemed to be a separation, I could distinctly feel the life force energy or whatever it is leeching out of me. I was aware of the difference between me and the life energy leaving me.


It is difficult to describe in words but there was a time when I seemed to occupy two different places; I could feel the pain in my body but I was also away from the pain, as if floating beside me. I then felt frightened I could tell I was dying or dead, not really sure which would be right. But I knew that I did not want to be dead then. So I remember saying to myself, 'If I don’t stand up now I will never stand up,' so I went back to my body and made me stand up. I remember feeling a rush of life back into my body it was like a sharp gust of wind filling my body and then I was back inside me and I could feel the pain again. The physical reality was a sharp contrast to the sublime formless energy of being outside my body.


The very real and distinct separation of my consciousness and my body is something I will never forget.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    15-02-03

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death Heart attack that lasted two hours.  I was not expected to survive by the time I reached hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was, it seemed, in a formless state away from my body conscious but formless.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very conscious and aware, as I have described, it was very distinct and as real as any other experience I have had.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Perhaps being separate from my body would be a different dimension but there wasn't any other 'place' I went too.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I made the decision to return to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part it seems is that a fundamental question has been partly answered for me; that there is a life force that is separate from the body. The worst thing is having had the heart attack I feel death is known to me and that there is very little between life and death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_r_nde.html