{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_r_nde_215.html","mytitle":"David R NDE 215","mylang":"de"}
          	        David R NDE 215  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1418 David R NDE 215  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There is not much to tell really. I was in an open box, enveloped in darkness while still able to see around me, faced with a choice of going towards multiple lights in front of me or staying where I was. I chose to stay here because I believed that whomever I was in contact with was telling me to go back because I was needed in this lifetime. I believe that I talked with the highest plane of consciousness that any human could ever hope to attain and spoke with many different people from the past who were attempting to tell me what I needed to know to finish my job here on earth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death   I have had many heart difficulties in the past and was expecting to die early. I also had recently gone through my second heart bypass surgery just a month or two earlier. I was having a heart attack, CPR was performed on me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was not aware that I was clinically dead but aware that I was in a special place or plane of consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert, calm and aware of where I was but not caring or aware of my death.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall hearing anything. A pleasant background hum perhaps but no real noise.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I didn't pass through any portals but I was in a dark area.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Not with any individual entity but instead, with a stream of consciousness that, to me, represented truth and the essence of what we were to evolve to, as a species. This consciousness reigned supreme in the entire known universe and represents the next generation of humanity to me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not a single light but dozens of them that I could choose to go towards.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, analytical curiosity, I was fully aware of my situation.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I sensed that I was given a purpose for the rest of my life. I felt I was asked to further a message about change and enlightenment soon to come to the world. I have since stopped trying to further any message because all it seems to do is make me look crazy while driving people away from what I have come to believe. Again, very frustrating.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew of general changes on the horizon but could not say that I can predict anything because any revelations that I may have had could be explained away by a general knowledge of how society and people think. I hope this is clear.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was more like a boundary zone where I was given a choice to stay or return. The limiting structure could be described as a wall of lights, small and pinpoint, in the distance as I was floating in a box.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was given a choice to stay or return. I chose to return but was told later on that my wife had insisted that I come back. She was performing CPR as she is a nurse, while waiting for assistance.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was, at the time of my NDE, a very angry religion basher in general and enjoyed exposing the hypocrisy of organized religion.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe I was put on a different life path by what I experienced. I began to believe that I was a messenger of sorts with the message unclear or not able to be made into a story that makes sense. Very frustrating.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't understand it afterwards and stopped thinking about it for a while, chipping away at what I could recall in order to understand it. During this process my marriage ended so I am only now beginning to have a better grasp of it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     This is a tough call. I believe that I was put in contact with the essence of all that it is to be human. I believed at one time that I was the reincarnation of many different humans from the past.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part is knowing that there is more to life than this existence. Worst is watching and waiting for the process of life to take me to the next level. I get frustrated by not being able to grow as fast as I wish.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife, who is a nurse. She also had a NDE about two years previous. She was neither curious nor ready to talk with me about it. We have since separated amicably.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Good job!    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_r_nde_215.html