{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_n_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"David N Possible NDE 6135","mylang":"de"}
          	        David N Possible NDE 6135  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David N Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4040 David N Possible NDE 6135  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One night, back in 1993, I went to bed early 6:00 pm.  I was feeling very fatigued and anxious.

1. FEELING UNWELL AND FATIGUED:

Soon after going to sleep, I felt as though I awoke to a vibrating sound that I could also feel. I realized that I was in a corner of my room looking slightly down across the bottom end of my bed.  I could hear a voice coming from behind me, but I could not see anyone around and remember feeling a bit taken aback by the voice because I could not see whom or where it was coming.  The Voice told me that I was safe and in good company. I had a very strong, soothing, magnetic feeling of love and compassion come over me.  A bright orb-shaped sphere came from behind me on my right side, and then moved in front of me.  The Spirit /Light changed its shape and appeared before me as a genderless Angel. I looked to my right, as I was at the foot of my bed, to see my body in bed sleeping and still breathing as normal. I was a little daunted by that.  I really took notice that I was floating about 1.5 meters off the ground. I noticed that the Angel was talking to me but without using its mouth to speak the words. At this point, I knew we were conversing telepathically through consciousness. 

I remember the Angel telling me that it was here to help teach me things.  I had a strong need to test this spirit to make sure that it was a good Angel sent by God. I asked the Spirit 'Do you love the Holy Spirit?' The Angel Just Smiled with a pause, looking at me quietly.  I then had this rush of overwhelming, strong, loving energy go right through my Soul/Spirit. I knew straight away that it was the Holy Spirit confirming to me that it was one of God's Divine Angels sent by him.

2. HELL:

Next thing I remember was being in the upper level of Hell and feeling very anxious, like my gut was tied up with fear. I remember having a thought that the Angel is right here near me and I Love the Lord with all that I am, so why am I here. At that moment, the Angel said that I had to experience Hell first before moving on. The Angel then returned us back into my room.  NOTE: I have to say that I don't remember how we got there, I truly at this point cannot remember if we traveled to Hell or if the Experience was brought to me.

3. LEAVING MY ROOM:

After talking in my room, the Angel took me up out of my Granny-flat bedroom into the sky, talking to me the whole time about things here on Earth. I remember looking down at the ground and being able to see clearly, the trees below me. It was nighttime but I could see all visual spectrums.  Trees appeared like in clear x-rays.  I remember the Angel explaining to me that all the living trees on earth are like the earth's living antennas.  (It’s funny, but when I was being told this and thinking of those trees that we were looking at, I felt connected to them right at that moment.)  The Angel showed me how quickly we could travel just by our thoughts. We would think of a place and within less than a second, we were there. 

TIME WAS NON-EXISTENT!

Once we were at the very upper atmosphere of earth, the Angel said to me 'The reason humans come to earth is to evolve their Spirit.' The Angel told me that 'IT IS ALL A LEARNING EXPERIENCE.'  Just on the outside of our atmosphere, I noticed some evil or bad spirits looking down on earth. The Angel told me that these evil spirits cannot harm me because of my love for the Lord. I am protected. I remember one of the evil spirits looking over at us, but I knew it was too afraid to approach. The Angel said that this is the furthest the evil spirits can come out from earth because they were bound here.  While we were out in our solar system, I could feel musical notes coming from all the planets as they spun on their axis. Earth gave off a very beautiful, high-pitch vibration and I could hear/feel Saturn right through the solar system. Saturn gave off the strongest notes.  It was pulsing with a low base vibration that felt so soothing.  

The Angel took me to a mountain on a planet somewhere of which I don't know. On the side of this mountain was a large house-like building under construction.  It overlooked a beautiful green valley that was alive with trees, plants, grass and sunlight. The Angel took me into the building where I met the Spirits that were building this house. One of the workers only had eyes and a cigar where his mouth should be. The Angel and I were looking through the stud beams out over the valley when the Angel said that 'this mansion was being built for when you return to live in it.' I could not believe what I heard.  The view was just breathtaking!

4.  SEEING GOD'S ARTWORK IN HEAVEN/THE UNIVERSE.

From there, the Angel took me to see God's artwork out there in the Universe. I remember the first nebular gas-cloud to which the Angel took me.  It looked like it was hand-painted. The Image that I saw was as a female being pulled sideways from the orange and black gas cloud by an Angel hidden behind it.



When I saw this cloud up close, in my spirit form, I could see all the much higher ALIVE, reactive color spectrum. This image does not do it justice, the way that I saw it up close.  The next nebular, that I was taken to, had two nuns praying below the feet of the Lord on his throne in the clouds.



I was also taken to another cloud that looked like the face of a child with two others beside it.  That was so amazing to see these images out there in space when we live on Earth.



I was also shown a gas-cloud image that looked like the shadow of a Human Being with light behind it from a long distance.



The next gas-cloud that the Angel took me to was a priest/bishop praying and to the right of him there is large red love, heart-shape, with an image of Jesus' face faintly hidden behind it in the brown gas-cloud.



5. REUNION WITH PAST FAMILY AND FRIENDS.

From there the Angel took me to what I call THE GRAND BUILDING or Grand TEMPLE. I am not sure of the name of this place, but it was brilliant white like a Palace.  The Angel took me inside this building, which was amazing to see from the front. It had a large beautiful garden in the front with beautiful pond-lakes.  The front veranda of the building was enormous and had many massive, white columns out the front of it.  Once I was inside the building, I noticed that the building was ALIVE with reactive light energy. ALL MATTER WAS ALIVE/ REACTIVE LIGHT ENERGY THERE. I cannot put into words how beautiful it was inside.  I looked up at the ceiling in one of the large rooms and noticed that the ceiling was clear, like glass. You could see all the stars and the universe above. Talk about magic! I was just in absolute awe of the place. The Angel took me into a large room and as I entered the room, there were many people waiting for me.  I was reunited with past family ancestors and friends that had passed over.  The feeling that I got from everyone was so overwhelming with love that projected from him or her into my soul and visa versa.  They could feel all of my emotion at the same time as well.  My great-grandparents from my mum's side introduced themselves to me, as well as my grandfather who died when my mum was only 9 years of age.  I noticed that most of the spirits were in the form of Light sphere-shapes.  Although we could not see each others' faces, we knew who each other was.  I remember one male person who wanted to talk to me who was at the back of the room. As soon as I thought and look at him, we came to each as instantaneously.  This person I am not ready to say who he is, but he was a family member to me in a past lifetime.  I am sure that I have come across him again here on earth.  The whole time I was in that room with my family and friends, the feeling of love and joy was so overwhelming that there are no words describe it. Being on earth feels so much heavier and clunky in our bodies. I know when we are released and take that love energy with us, the energy is allowed to spread out and expand.

6. LIFE REVIEW AND FUTURE LEARNING.

After I had spent some time with my family and friends, the Angel took me to a room off to the right side of the grand room and into a smaller room where I was introduced to TWO VERY WISE MALE SPIRITS who wore white robes and had snow-white hair and beards.  I loved being in their presence.

One of the Wise Spirits asked me a question about an incident that happened to me when I was about 5 or 6 years old, in first grade at primary school. I felt uneasy about the answer because it was about a fight that I had with a classmate.  The classmate punched me and went running away across the playground. The boy must have been say 30 meters away and running, when I threw a rock the size of a walnut at an elliptically high angle that hit the kid square on the top of his head when it came down.  When I didn't answer, one of the Wise Males said, 'The lesson to be learned right here is, GOD THE FATHER KNOWS ALL YOUR THOUGHTS AND INTENTIONS AT ALL TIMES.  You are a part of HIM and HE is a part of you.'  Just after that, I was told that I would be shown my life review.  When it started, it was like a holographic image that came up in front of me from out of the surroundings, and then I became completely immersed in the experience, connecting my soul as one with it.  I was shown of times when I had hurt peoples' feelings but was completely unaware of it. I was literally in the other person's shoes/body and felt what they went through. I also experienced it from side on profile, as well, to get the full experience. The experience was to teach me about empathy without judgment, to always put myself into the other person’s shoes, and to look through their eyes and emotions.  After my life review, I was given more lessons in the holographic state.  When we return, we can call on all of God's true science of how everything works. I was told that when we return, we have the capacity to learn and retain everything at super-high speed compared to with our clunky bodies that are designed for us individually to work at different levels. I was shown this at super-high speed and retained it all.  

7. MEETING JESUS AND FUTURE EVENTS TO WATCH FOR.

After my life review, we left the Grand building.  The Angel took me further out into the Cosmos/ Heaven. The Angel and I came to a large gas-cloud.  We slowed down as we approached, coming up very closely to it that I could almost touch it. We rose up slowly, up the side of the cloud until we came to the top. As we slowly came over the top of the cloud, I could see Jesus floating, waiting for us.  I was just so overwhelmed and I did have fear of Jesus’ appearance, but also I had a feeling of total respect. What caused me to have fear is because of Jesus’ appearance, which was a little different from pictures of him that I had seen from time to time of him during my life. Jesus had a golden light coming from him. His hair was brilliant, illuminated snow white, which was different from how I always imagined. He wore a glowing white robe with a golden ribbon/sash that went from his anatomical left shoulder to his right hip.  The Angel brought me in front of Jesus, where I could clearly see his eyes.  They were GLOWING, BRIGHT-RED ENERGY, like red plasma energy coming from his eyes.  I admit that I felt more afraid of his appearance at this point and wanted to look down.  The Angel said to me, 'Don't be afraid, the burning in his Eyes is his BURNING COMPASSION FOR ALL OF YOU.'  (I have only remembered these words about two months ago, after conversations with Reverend John W Price and thinking about it.)  I felt an extremely powerful feeling of love and compassion go right though me. It was so positively overwhelming, that if I felt it in my body, the body would not handle it. It is like being hit by lightning, which is the only way I can describe it in my own words. I also noticed that Jesus’ feet were a maroon brown color.  Jesus wrapped his arms around me; words were not needed to feel his love for me, because I could feel it right though me.  Jesus started to tell me of things to come, and what to look out for in my lifetime. I received a totally immersed vision from him similar to the life review experience.  Jesus went into detail about the new currency bartering system that the governments would impose on every one on Earth. 

    Stage 1: Micro-chipping for ‘personal security identification’ will be used for healthcare and eventually for currency/bartering.

    Stage 2: Nanotechnology injection into the blood system       

    Stage 3: DNA resonance reading

Note: Jesus showed me these technologies would cause signs of cancerous lesions on people's skin.  They looked like small hematoma bleeds all over the body.  The Lord will intervene soon after that. But no man will know when.  I was shown what my future work/careers would be.  I was shown that I will be employed by the Ambulance Service, they have the highest level of security for a civilian (Diplomatic Security at Federal and State level) and back into the Health Service Security work.  All of these careers have happened for me, but I didn't give it much thought until 8 months ago. (This was written in 2011)

8. MY GUARDIAN ANGEL SHOWED IT SELF TO ME.

After Jesus was finished showing me this, the Angel moved out in front of me and opened its wings out for me to see it completely. The Angel told me that It was my Guardian Angel and the reason that it had come to me is because my prayers had been answered for asking for guidance about my Adult Baptism that I was going through the next week-end.  My Guardian Angel was the most awesome sight to me with its wings spread.

9. THE ANGEL TOOK ME TO MORE OF GOD'S ART WORK ON THE WAY BACK OUT THERE IN THE UNIVERSE.

This one that stood out to me. (I visited the Lord on a Throne surrounded by seven gold lanterns that represent seven spirits.): 



This is much clearer up close; it is out of focus from Hubble's image. The lanterns are GOLD hurricane lanterns

The next cloud I visited looked like A Greek God painting with two males in it, this is true art.





This was the next cloud that I visited; it had an image of a horse's head above Jesus in blue electric light.



This is also out of focus in Hubble telescopes image.

The next place I went to had two angel images hidden to the right side. One of the Angels is child-like.  The other is male next to the purple plasma.  Both angels are looking down in front at a figure leaning face down in front.



The last image that I saw out in the Universe was of Jesus in light rays. I witnessed this from a distance to the far left of this angle.  Note: this is not Jesus but it is an artwork image of him for us to find.



10. RETURNED TO MY BODY

Soon after seeing the image of Jesus in the light beam, my Guardian Angel brought us back to our solar system where I could hear the pulsing sound of Saturn again.  My Guardian Angel knew that I was enjoying the vibration that I could feel/hear. I was given time to enjoy it until the Angel said, 'It is now time to return to your body, and to SHARE WHAT YOU WITNESS.'  I felt sad to leave and joked 'I'm happy to stay if you want!' The Angel laughed and said, 'IT'S NOT THE TIME TO STAY.'  My Guardian Angel sent me straight back to my body.  The next thing was that I sat up in my body. I felt lit-up and buzzing like a three phase floodlight.

11. FOR YEARS I ONLY TOLD MY WIFE, MY MUM (MOM) AND MINISTER.

I didn't tell anyone until the next Sunday.  I told my Mum, my Wife and the Minister at church before my baptism. It has taken me 19 years to date to get this out and I have now started to share my experience with my closest friends, whom I thought that they would just write me off as losing the plot, but their reaction has been extremely positive. THE LORD IS MY WITNESS AND I HAVE REMEMBERED TO THE BEST OF MY ABILITY TO DATE (There is still more memories I know to come to the surface for me.) THIS IS A TRUE ACCOUNT OF WHAT HAPPENED TO ME BACK IN 1993.  

This is named The Jesus Nebular



This female image was also shown to me, WE should not have any doubt about the Divine because there are images of 'US’ out there all over the Universe.



I cannot confirm 100%, but this reminds me so much of where the grand building is that I had my reunion and life review.

The focus lets it down:



I saw this sign of the cross clearly at a distance:



I also saw this up close.



This is an image of the spirit leaving the body. I saw a body lying down with its hands on its chest and the floating spirit above it:



I visited this one after being with Jesus, on the return. Notice on the right top corner that there is a male face in the image. This is how I saw it.



This was so clear, the way that I experienced it. 

(Image of an Angel) I have a lot to say about this image, later.  Very Blurry though.

Seeing these images really throws me! This would be the last image I have in my memory before being told that 'IT IS NOT THE TIME TO STAY' and returned to my body.

The Angel was close to Hubble.



I was able to see this image square on to the face.



I saw this next image from a distance, and remember being able to focus right up to it from where I was without moving closer and very clearly.

It is a man dressed in medieval clothing standing in what looked like a cave.



No words needed for this next one. I still don't believe that Hubble found it. This is the face of a child, with two others on both sides.



The next one you should see a face in the middle of the image, two arms spread out and the torso.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.         Other: OBE.  What people refer to as an out of body experience. What I do know is that my spirit/conciseness was separate from my body for at least 12 hours.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I moved away from my room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I would score my alertness at 10/10 compared while back in my body 5/10.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When in my Out Of Body state I was at the highest, I've ever been.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   Actually no, the concept of time was not present at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Yes.  The whole Experience was way way more vivid and way way more real then in our body.  Our senses are dumbed down in our bodies.  There is way more going on that we cannot sense or pick-up on in our bodies.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was much clearer and the colors were so much brighter at a much higher spectrum.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sound was felt and speech was through thought/telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandfather,who died long before I was born, other ancestors and past friends.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything I witnessed was light. All life and matter was light energy.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole experience was spiritual, at a much higher dimensional experience than in the body. I felt whole and at complete peace.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Heightened love and empathy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had my life review played to me. It was like a holographic screen in front of me.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I had personal future Work presented and other details of future scientific breakthroughs in this area: Physics, Biology and other areas that I won't talk about yet.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm always praying and talking quietly to Lord God. Friends don't even know it.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I am very Spirital and have more of a KNOWING then Faith.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I wasnt one to pick up the Bible and read it much before the experiance and wasnt that Religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     From Faith to Knowing.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was in the presence of an angel the whole time and was taken to meet other people passed over and Jesus.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   yes Jesus, My Grand Father other ansesters and past friends.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Every thing is conected and entagled.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God is in every living thing and we are in him.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I used to have faith and hope before, but after the experience, I have a Knowing: Knowing I went to the other side and back.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Earth is a place of learnig: compassion,forgivness, Love,ampathy and interactiion.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes we are here to interact and evolve. Life dose go on.  One thing from me personaly, Quote Einstine got it right in law of phisics: Energy Never Dies it only chages form.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The Love I felt there or bodies would not be able to handle it. The way to describe it it is very magneticaly strong.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I am very spiritual, and have picked up telepathy and heightened empathy.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Insight in times of distress.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The positive feelings that I experienced were so high that we cannot gage it in our body form; I think at times it would be too overwhelming for the body. I also saw colors that are higher and brighter than the ones we see in from our body.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've known when danger was around in my work both ambulance and security work. I would look back and wonder how I picked that: Intuition.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only my wife, my son and a Minister.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt even much more real to me. It felt that it is where we are meant to be.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It felt that it is where we are meant to be.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Only my Intuition.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_n_possible_nde.html