{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_s_nde_4876.html","mytitle":"David S NDE 4876","mylang":"de"}
          	        David S NDE 4876  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2484 David S NDE 4876  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Ran a mini-marathon on a very hot (a hundred degrees plus) day. Became more and more impaired, trying to finish, until I collapsed. Awakened in an ice-bath, conscious of worried faces observing me.  I presume they were doctors. I was very worried that I was in grave peril.  

Suddenly, I was watching doctors working over a body on a table. I was either above, and/or I have the recollection of being behind large glass doors - and I was willing (maybe shouting) that they NOT pull the sheet over that poor schmuck lying there, who happened to be me. All of the sudden, I was back in my body, feeling my heart and temperature racing. Then I remembered to have FAITH.  It is so simple.  I had forgotten to have faith in my panic. No sooner did I 'remember' to have faith than I could feel, palpably, that I was slowing down, cooling down, feeling much more peaceful, that I was going to be alright.

I immediately began lecturing and testifying to everyone there (as the doctors recalled with some amusement - and I hallucinated that my parents, old teachers, etc. were there) how important 'Faith' is, etc., etc. I was happy, relieved that I was 'safe', returned. Actually, I was sick for probably the next month, loss of appetite, trouble walking up stairs, etc., having so depleted and exhausted myself physically.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 1977'
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    heat-stroke while running in race  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Heat stroke - touch and go - immersed in an ice bath.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While out of body - intensely focused on body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While out of body - intensely focused on body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It all seemed somewhat attenuated - lost sense of time - and while I was in peril, it did seem 'speeded up'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Felt like I was on the other side of doors (glass doors).

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Hallucinated parents and teachers who I thought were there in the hospital room with me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, anxiety, wonder, shock of awareness, intense regret, of having forgotten (of God, faith), relief.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Importance of faith.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Jewish

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Reinforced my faith.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Jewish

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Reinforced my faith.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Importance of belief, faith, God - and I apparently shared my special knowledge very directly with all who were there.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     But I had two specific, non-accident involved 'out of body' experiences previously, where I clearly left my body and roamed, all the while watching my body asleep on my bed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Started immediately afterwards - people interested, fascinated - changed? Don't know.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Was at the bedside of a woman who was dying, and just before she passed, she described being very peaceful, with spirit guardians on either side of her.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Revealed power of will, faith, confirmed the view I have of two 'worlds' - spiritual and physical - that we inhabit.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Unchanged - have told the story many times.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Previously, similar experiences (out of body) indicated above.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_s_nde_4876.html