{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_m_nde_4457.html","mytitle":"David M NDE 4457","mylang":"de"}
          	        David M NDE 4457  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2234 David M NDE 4457  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					What I recall is that I was not feeling well for the past couple of days, like I had fever and no appetite and when the medical staff aboard the USS Coronado drew blood from me my pulse dropped rapidly and the staff were working frantically as I was slipping away quickly. I had never had an adverse reaction in the past from having blood drawn and this seemed odd to me at this time. The strangest thing that I recall (as if it happened yesterday), was that, although these medical people were suddenly working frantically to revive me, that I had no concern at all for my wellbeing as I knew that I was okay throughout the entire episode. I found myself suspended about four feet or so above all this activity and immersed in bright light beyond me, but somewhat equally as bright to my sides as well. I was very much at peace and was dumbfounded about what all the confusion was on the medical table (upon which I was physically lying), below me. I distinctly recall my thoughts of, 'Well if you doctor's would just do this (or that) that I would in fact be fine.' Of course, I have no medical background but at that moment, it was clear to me what they were doing wrong. I have never recalled what that was specifically though.

Their panic (or probably more like frantic work) to resuscitate me was obvious to me at that time to be really a questioning of what the heck could be going wrong with this patient brought on by the quickness of the plummeting pulse and their statement of 'We're going to lose him.' I have never recalled anything about what type of action/procedure they were using to revive me or anything else about the episode as it was occurring. However, do distinctly recall that they were angry when I told them afterwards that I hadn't had any food for the past day. I had (at one time or another) or possibly it was this same procedure had two Navy Corpsman lance a cyst like lump behind my ear expecting to be able to remove an inner pocket of infection but found none. I don't really recall if this was the same procedure date or not as it was back in 1971. Something else about the outer-body experience I do recall is that the medical staff's voices were somewhat distorted, almost distant, kind of like as if they were being transmitted through a hollow cylinder like a tin can with open ends. I am certain that they had no idea that I was above them witnessing the revival procedure, and I couldn't communicate vocally with them, however, I recall vividly saying to myself that they simply didn't know what they were doing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was ill on another ship and was transported to the medical ship and they drew blood from me and just following my pulse dropped quickly and I was slipping away rapidly. The doctors/staff were working feverishly to try to get my pulse back.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I found myself above them in the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I found myself above them in the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness was not blinding, but very white. What I seem to recall about the clarity of viewing the procedure was slightly wavering, but not in a transparent or distorted wavy fashion. What I recall of my field of vision is that it was all encompassing, but my focus was somewhat narrowed to watching these guys work on me. Depth perception felt like I was heading into the light, but knew I wanted to stay and watch what was going on below me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As described above, like a hollow almost mild echo.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I recall feeling myself moving outward and upward, however, I don't recall at this time whether it was anything like a tunnel, but, certainly not an enclosure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Simply saw the medical staff working on me as well as seeing my physical body on the table.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light above me and peripherally.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very peaceful, in fact I don't ever feel like I have felt such peace either before or since then.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Presbyterian raised, however, rarely attend services since Vietnam days.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I will forever recall the tremendous feeling of peace and the entire experience of actually being out of body. I would expect the next time that I experience that will be the day I actually die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I do not believe I told any Marine buddies at the time, in fact, I don't recall telling anyone except my mother a few years later. I have told my wife a few years back and her reaction was like 'Wow'. I told her mom about six months ago, she was very interested in my recollection, and she is a MENSA person who certainly feels very enlightened with regard to Mind/Spirit. I cannot say whether or not they were actually influenced otherwise.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It wasn't as if I was hallucinating or anything like that, but more actually in total control of my senses while being out of body. I couldn't verbally communicate in that time frame (and be heard by anyone), but it was just as real as it was that I was lying on the table. The difference was that I felt that I was like in a void between the physical world and the spiritual world.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real then and it remains real today. I believe that today I am more spiritually connected to where I maintain a conscious contact with God than I was back then. I recall shouting out to God in Vietnam and cussing him out and throwing him out of my life. It wasn't until 1991 that I reached a point in life where I needed God to be present in my life (consciously) again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was a twin at birth and my brother and I were born three months premature. He died at two days old; I was blue and had to be revived within a day or so of his death. I have always wondered whether or not it was possible for Robert's spirit to be living through (or a part of) my spirit. I recall often in life years ago that I wasn't complete and today I feel that possibly that may have been an avoidance or disconnect (on my part) from having a conscious contact with God.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It seemed rather time consuming to complete, but, I figured that there must have been a reason for me to continue it to the end. No other questions that I can think of.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_m_nde_4457.html