{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_m_nde_2614.html","mytitle":"David M NDE 2614","mylang":"de"}
          	        David M NDE 2614  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					David M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification «Classification»  						849 David M NDE 2614  					  				  			    			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was having a front and posterior spinal fusion with instrumentation. When it happened I immediately knew I was dead. I went up through the wall to the outside and watched a helicopter land. They unloaded a baby and took it inside at that moment. I panicked and thought of my children and I was overwhelmed with grief and was sobbing and repeating, 'who's going to take care of my kids?' This went on briefly and I heard a voice. I didn't see who it was but he said, 'Fear not for I will watch over them.' At that instant he spoke, I was overcome with the greatest feeling I have ever felt. It was warm and great and sucked all fear out of me. Then I didn't care and wanted to go on up through a light that appeared. I was on my way and could not wait I was almost to the end and I saw glowing people that I knew were my grandma and dad who were dead for years.

Then zap, just like that, I woke up in recovery very paranoid. I asked to see my wife and told her that something went wrong during surgery that I had seen the helicopter and had died. She asked the doctor and he said everything went fine and he is okay. All during my stay at the hospital and when I went home, I thought I was going crazy. I knew something happened however, believing my doctor, I couldn't understand what.

Anyhow, I went for my six month checkup at the doctor's office. He took x-rays to see if the fusion was taking. As we looked at the x-rays, I noticed a small piece of metal that looked like a staple that was too high and away from the other screws, so I asked what that is up there on the x-ray. My doctor then told me that we had some trouble during your surgery, your aorta was snipped, and we had almost lost you. We had to put you on the heart machine and we couldn't get your heart started for a long time. After several around ten shocks, maybe, it finally started.

I was furious I said I had my wife ask you about this, you are Jewish, and you lied to her and me. He said we got you back and I didn't want to upset her or you. I said you lied I can't trust you. Do you know I needed to know because I had things happen while I was dead and you had me thinking I was going crazy. I told him to never lie to someone. They need to know it's their life not yours. I am in total belief; he was in denial mode for fear of lawsuit. My wife worked for another doctor and we tried to get the notes. They were misplaced and lost. However, I now have had three heart attacks since then and carry a marker on my aorta to mark where it is sewed together.

I now have dreams that happen usually in a short time. If you want to speak to me don't wait because I won't be here long. I have seen my future death with my son and can't wait to go because it feels so great. I am no longer afraid to die. There is life beyond. There is an explosion that is going to happen soon. The earth I believe is going to be struck by something that looks like fires coming from the sky and at least my son and I are together. I wish the rest of my children would be with us because when it happens I calm him. Please, please, please pray and believe in him.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   They accidentally cut my aorta in half and I was placed on a heart lung machine.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   This life here is not the end. It is like it happened yesterday. I have just started to hear a voice, just twice, first it said a name 'Henry Hiser' who I don't know then a day later last week it said it is time!!!!! So I believe it is now fast approaching, within four weeks.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When he spoke to me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     You could just tell.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was dark everywhere except for a great light from above leading you to it.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't describe.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel of light but not a tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus, or so I think he was, for the effect of his voice saying fear not for I will watch over them. I did not see him though. I saw what I thought were grandma and dad who are living beyond.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright warm light with love.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I DIDNT MAKE IT  TO THE END OF THE LIGHT  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anguish, deep sorrow, then pure love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I just knew to love everyone when I got back and not to be mean at all, hold no grudge, love your enemy.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Not there, but here I now have dreams that happen just important things.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I DID BELIEVE IN GOD BUT DIDNT PRACTICE  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray constantly.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   HIHGLY RELIGOUS  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray constantly.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After he (Jesus) spoke to me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I stopped messing around on my wife.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of real love when he, Jesus I think, spoke to me was warm and filled me with love.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have dreams that happen now and just recently voices twice.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_m_nde_2614.html