{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_l_nde_385.html","mytitle":"David L NDE 385","mylang":"de"}
          	        David L NDE 385  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1342 David L NDE 385  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was swimming in a pool, with a friend. We had a large raft in the pool with us; we were playing like we were scuba divers. He left to use the bathroom and I kept on swimming. I went under water, my face mask came off and the chlorine was burning my eyes so I shut my eyes and came up for air. When I thought I was out of the water I gasped for air not knowing the raft was above me. I breathed in all water because the raft held me under when I took my breath. I freaked out and was thrashing around for air. My strength vanished quickly from all the thrashing around under the raft. I sank to the bottom of the pool with no strength left.

My body was convulsing trying to get oxygen then after a bit, my body went still. All I could see was black all I could hear was my heart beating slower and slower. I remember praying, 'I don't want to die. Please God I don't want to die.' I started to cry, I know I was crying because the tears were warmer than the water. I could no longer hear my heart. Then I saw these things like huge bubbles, but they were not bubbles, they kept getting closer and closer. They hit me with extreme force and each time one would hit I would see a moment from my past when I was being mean or rude to someone but I saw it through their eyes and I could feel how I was making them feel. It was awful. One after another, they wouldn't stop, each bubble seemed to last forever and felt worse and worse.

It was like watching a virtual reality video and feeling every emotion and physical pain. Then I saw my funeral and all my loved ones and how they felt from me being dead. I started to pray and had an understanding of some sort of what was going on. It was almost like a mini judgment of my life up to that point. Everything that I had said or done to hurt anyone was coming upon me.

I continued to pray then all of a sudden this feeling of love came over me and I knew everything was going to be all right. God gave me the strength to lift up my arm and my friend grabbed it, pulled me out, and revived me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Energy floating in darkness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Wide awake. Very alert.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Through visions of past events.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My past and a little of the future.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Every emotion.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Everything came together not something you can say something you just feel when I was in the presence of death.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Still learning.

The experience included:       Vision of the future  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Do onto others as you would have done to you.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     OBE every now and then and nightmares.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_l_nde_385.html