{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_k_nde.html","mytitle":"David K NDE 2444","mylang":"de"}
          	        David K NDE 2444  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						741  David K NDE  2444  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I am glad to finally to be able to share this with someone.

At the time of my most significant experience, I was a homeless teenager living in basically the worst neighborhood Philadelphia has to offer. I was there because I was a heroin addict and it was readily available to me in that setting. I don't want that to diminish any credibility of my account as you will see despite my lack of formal education I am relatively intelligent, (a gift from my experience).

Like I said I was homeless at the time and using heroin quite frequently. It was one time in particular that led me to near death. I had just gotten high in the Dunkin Donuts bathroom at early morning hours (3:00 am) with some friends I had at the time. When I walked out I saw them look at me and all of their jaws dropped.  I saw them run over to me. I remember trying to ask them 'What's the big deal?' but no voice came out and I wondered why for only a second. Then it was like I was transported to another plane of light first white and then as I felt like I was gaining focus I realized it was a bright purple. I was traveling not as a human but as a force of energy, that I have come to describe as waves of light. There were others there also that guided me and communicated to me and welcomed me like a loving mother would and I could feel a connection with them that had no origin.

The feelings that I experienced then were overwhelming to me as a LOVE I never thought possible and peace beyond words. By this point, I had realized that I must have died and I truly didn't mind, in fact I was relived and would have cried in Joy had my body been with me. I still cry every time I think about what awaits me on the other side, like I can channel the peace and love that was there and it has been eleven years. I am still very much in touch with that dimension.

I never reached any destination but the fellow spirits that traveled with me told me of a source energy that all spirits must pass through and your true spirit will be revealed to you. I remember wanting to laugh because I knew that I was pure. At the time, I was confused because I was a homeless man and had done some things to support my habit that broke the Laws of MAN. The spirits reminded me of some of my better moments on earth that reflected the true nature of my spirit and the kindness that it holds. I was relieved and I believed them with all my being.

I was very much anticipating visiting this source of energy that they had told me of because I had a feeling that once that was done I had some important things to do (Don't ask me what, but whatever it was it was the reason I had been on earth). Unfortunately, I never made it to that point.

I then felt the worst pain I have ever felt, I could feel myself being ripped out of where I was and it burned, I woke up in the hospital bed throwing up and shaking uncontrollably sweating profusely and I was extremely mad at the doctor I cursed him up and down and I knew I was alive again. (I think, or I might be in Hell.)

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Drug Overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I normally hated existing in this world, but there I felt like I was free and had purpose.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before I came back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   If there was time it held no significance.  And there were no boundaries or limitations to the spaces. If anything time was slower because it was more enjoyable.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed that everything there is communicated through light and vibrations of sound and soul.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Music.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above account. I believe they were guides or fellow angels.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light that guided me was the landscape ( I think)  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense goodness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was raised in a two religion household and developed an early understanding of the conflict that arises between any said religion.  I chose not to label myself with any one religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I still share the same views as prior to me experience concerning organized religion but I have a new faith and understanding of life and the energy that it consists of.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we are all spiritual beings and to learn from being on earth. What you learn here you will need in the next world. This is the test, all things bodily will leave, you will be the creator of another world.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I would say yes at the time, it has been a couple of years and I have some words to best describe it, now it is just hard for most people to understand.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Can't say.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I was there and it's eleven years later and I still am obsessed with it. You would be too.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_k_nde.html