{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"David J Probable NDE 5095","mylang":"de"}
          	        David J Probable NDE 5095  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2641 David J Probable NDE 5095  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is my amazing NDE. In my late twenties, I was in the neurological intensive care unit section of the hospital for bleeding in the brain. I told the nurse, 'I need to see a doctor, something's worse; this is the worst I've ever felt in my life!' She told me, 'I think you're just having an anxiety attack,' and left the room. I knew she was wrong. 

All of a sudden, I saw three men in white robes, which looked like they were on fire with a one-inch flame around their bodies standing at the front and sides of my bed. I was terrified because I wanted to help put the fire out but I did not know where the fire extinguisher was! I realized these guys were not even in pain or distress, and I thought, 'Wow, this is really strange.' Then I looked at the fire and I realized it was brighter than a thousand suns but you could stare at it and it did not hurt your eyes, yet it did not lighten up the corners of the hospital room. Although I did not recognize their faces, it was if I had known them my whole life and we were good friends.

Then, the one on my left put both hands in the air, and I left my body. We floated straight up through the ceiling face first, which I thought might be painful but it did not hurt at all. We went through the hospital roof and started to ascend into the sky. I turned my body around face down and saw the roof of the building from the perspective of the sky. My view was later confirmed to be true from satellite imagery of the hospital, which proves this was neither a dream not a hallucination. I looked at the grass and the color was different. It was extra vibrant, glowing and pulsating and it was like a feast for the eyes. This is the best I can describe it because the English language does not have the right words.

With one angel in front and two on the side, we went up high in the clouds. Then, we started moving horizontally going faster than an airplane, and they did not need wings to fly. I thought to myself, 'Shouldn't friction be causing me pain from wind pressure?' The angel in front spoke without using his mouth. He stated 'There's no friction here.' I said mind-to-mind, 'Why isn't gravity making me fall?' He replied 'There's no gravity here.' I remembered learning that temperature in the clouds is extremely cold and I thought, 'Why aren't I cold?' 'There's no cold here,' was the response. I started to think about my job and university and the angel told me 'THERE'S NO STRESS HERE!' I asked, 'Why aren't we talking with our mouths?' He responded 'On earth, talking with your mouth makes your throat dry.' Then, I said to him, 'I'm glad you speak English, how many languages do you speak?' He said, 'All of them.' I told him I wanted to ask some others things. I asked him what the meaning of life is. He told me 'For the entertainment of the spirit realm.' I asked him when the world will end and as a messenger of God he told me the answer, yet he mentioned there would be some things I would not be allowed to remember and this was be one of them.

This whole time we were flying and all of a sudden we started doing acrobatics and we flew straight through a cloud and it was exhilarating. The most fun I'd ever had. It is kind of like being on a rollercoaster and you go over a hill and you get that 'wheeeee' feeling - multiply that by a thousand. Flying through a cloud is like being kissed by a marshmallow. It's the best I know how to describe it. It is so awesome and cool.

Next, the angel in front turned around in slow motion facing towards me and all four us stopped in midair. He said 'We have to back.' I said 'NO! This is so cool and I want to feel like this FOREVER!' I pleaded with him 'I do not have any children and I am not married, no one down there needs me!' I said. 'The brain I have down there is injured I don't want to go back to that body, I'd like to stay here.' I was told by him, 'You will be made whole.' After that, I was given a life review. I went back in time to when I was a baby and in my mother's arms. I was happy and loved without any stress, then I looked at my mother and instead of it being her somehow I knew it was God, and He held me in his arms and hugged me and the love I felt was unlike anything on earth. It was perfect because the One I was with has no sin. It brings a tear to my eye because I long for God's hug again, it was the most amazing thing ever and I get homesick! I was not allowed to remember what God looks like. Next, I was shown when I was five years old playing in the sandbox all alone talking to God in an audible voice telling Him my hopes and dreams. I was told by the angel that God absolutely loves it when a child talks to Him! Next, I was shown my sales job as a young adult misleading a customer to make the sale. The angel revealed to me that the demons in hell rejoice when someone tells a lie.

All of a sudden, I was in my mother's home, and I saw my mom on the couch crying uncontrollably which I had never seen before in my life. Then, in less than a second, we were transported to my best friend's house, ten miles away and I witnessed her shaking and crying violently which I never witnessed. Apparently, this was a vision of the future had I been allowed to stay and they would be mourning my death, so I told the angel 'Okay, okay, I'll go back.'

Instantaneously, I was back in my body. Heaven is real! I was there!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/28/10

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Hemorrhagic Stroke  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Hemorrhagic stroke with bleeding in the brain which has a high death rate because it was not treated quickly.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like five or ten minutes, yet over an hour had passed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The green grass was glowing and pulsating with a color of green that does not exist on earth.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It seemed I could hear without needing my ears. The angel and I communicated mind-to-mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three angels and God Himself.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was light emanating from the angels' bodies. I was in the bright sky.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Perfect love and contentment. There was joy and fun. No fear or stress.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     See main narrative.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I know when the world will end, but I was not allowed to remember.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned the meaning of life which is entertainment of the spiritual realm. I also learned when the world will end and what God looks like, yet I was not allowed to remember the answers.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   English does not have words that can fully describe the experience. I'll explain it the best I can.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have much better hearing than before. I can hear crickets with the windows closed even when no one else can. I can also read body language better than before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    This is my first time because I wanted to make sure it was not a dream or hallucination and I am convinced it is neither.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard Howard Storm's NDE on 'Unsolved Mysteries', which was both similar yet different than mine.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     At first, I wondered if it was just a dream but after studying for hours about dreams I know that it was NOT a dream. It was too vivid and easy to remember. Picture your favorite hour of your favorite vacation; you can remember everything about it. That is what is was like.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I saw the hospital roof from the sky which was verified later as this building is an unnatural shape.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've seen the angel who spoke to me twice since the experience, one time he told me his name is Nebuchim which I may be spelling wrong because the way he pronounced the 'ch' was different than how we say it English. Another time he put his hand on my shoulder to comfort me and I turned and smiled and saw his face again.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I long to feel God's hug again. It is indescribably awesome.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_j_probable_nde.html