{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_m_nde.html","mytitle":"David M NDE 2277","mylang":"de"}
          	        David M NDE 2277  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						655  David M NDE  2277  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I just recall being drawn towards a big bright light to the point where I was in the light, only to have it communicated to me that it was time to leave (and back I came). The coming back part was the most impressionable and requires little digging into the memory, as it seems to have happened just yesterday. As for an OBE I don't think I knew what a body was (laughs) however one thing I do remember is that at no stage did I feel grounded during the experience.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 25/6/85  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         my birth.  Other suffered fetal distress during birth and had to be delivered quickly with the use of forceps  Fetal distress.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The various distractions in life whether it be noise (or even vision) unable me to be this alert, everything just seemed more clear. Occasionally when I'm in a serene environment I may experience my higher self which is what I felt during my NDE.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My consciousness seemed to peak when I was being pulled away from the light (pretty clear).  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I can't remember.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I know that the surrounding light was very bright.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall any noise during my experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Not that I remember.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I don't remember encountering any other beings, however I did feel a wonderful presence.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light I saw was all around me it was like I was in the light the whole time.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I just remember entering the core of the light and then being whooshed back.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the time of the experience I don't think I knew what a body was (laughs) however one thing I do remember is that at no stage did I feel grounded during my experience (felt like I was free).  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     It happened at birth and I've always cherished the memory, and I often think about it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   being at the time of birth  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I've always believed that there is something else out there.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I've always believed that there is something else out there.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I'm not sure, but I know when I was young I always had an almost unconditional appreciation of nature, night skies etc. and it seemed closely related to my experience.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I'm not sure but I can recall a couple of childhood relationships which were very special to me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is rather difficult to express in words, as I'm unable to familiarize people with it. I felt my higher self.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The point in which I had to come back seemed like the defining moment of the experience. It was like a vacuum cleaner set to reverse (whoosh back I came).  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first person I told was mum and I would have been about twelve. It was just after I had heard other people NDE's I felt compelled to seek answers, when I told mum she was interested and quick to tell me about complications she had with me during birth. I've also told my sister/dad (of little interest to them) and told one of my mates who seems very interested.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's just always been in my being, in my conscience when I see the sun it often triggers the memory.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The only reason I clicked (probably real) was because of the various scientific explanations for this sort of stuff, however I'd be very surprised if it were something other than an unearthly encounter.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   The predominant feature of the experience was the clarity, the true me aspect, which would be altered by medication.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope I think I've covered most of it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_m_nde.html