{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_g_nde.html","mytitle":"David G NDE 3839","mylang":"de"}
          	        David G NDE 3839  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1814 David G NDE 3839  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt dizzy while I was speaking on the phone, sitting in a chair in my room at the hospital. She (my friend) and I were alone in the room. We had been left alone by the doctors and nurses. I had been bedridden for four days. I called my mother to tell her I had been able to get up. That is when I started to feel dizzy. I sat in a chair and called my friend to come over. I grasped her tightly round the knees while I was saying goodbye to my mother, I could just say, 'Mama, I feel dizzy.' I put the cell phone in my friend's purse and my head fell against her belly. It is lucky she was there in front of me. Then I fell into a dark tunnel. I don't know how long that lasted. Next, I found myself walking on a prairie, which extended to infinity. A feeling of wellbeing intoxicated my senses; I was smiling and filled with happiness. As far as my eyes could see everything was shining, the grass shone, the trees shone, everything was luminous.

Then I was in a room with walls of wood, and many windows. To my right were wooden stages, like those in a courtroom in the movies. When I looked up a bit, I could see three people seated there. Of these three, the first had a grey face, the second looked normal, but the third was a luminous entity, I knew it was a person, but without the form of a person. It was a light, and changed shape continuously. I deduced that they were judging me. Looking to the right I saw my father pacing anxiously, something he never did normally, between the seats there, with his hands clasped behind his back and his shoulders hunched forwards, as if he was carrying a weight on them. There was only one other being present. This was an entity of white light, without definite form and hovering in the air. It was not exactly there, but I sensed its presence. It did nothing. While this was going on, I had the vision of a dog, which was bounding towards me with its tongue out - obviously full of good intentions.

The person seated between the other two, on my right, struck the table with a gavel, while holding up some papers in the other hand. Then he said my name, and, 'He is condemned to go on living.' I turned my head to the right and saw my father give a sigh of relief. A second gavel-stroke marked the beginning of my sentence. My feet lost the ground under them and I returned to the dark tunnel, taking me somewhere. I was falling, going down who-knows-where in this tunnel, but the next moment I woke up again in this life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  22- Septiembre-2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Other Era el primer momento en el que me ponía de pie después de la operación de hernia discal. Sólo me sujetó mi compañera. Los médicos nos habían dejado solos.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment when after my sentence had been read, the ground vanished under me and I began to go through the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     To me it seemed an eternity, while in this world only ten to fifteen seconds had gone by.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were in pastel tones, very intense, but pastel tones.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear people much better than I do normally.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was all dark, with a little light to mark each end. I travelled without touching the sides with my body, and it was perfectly round. I was 'flying'.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I recognized my father. I would swear that I have been to this place on other occasions, speaking with these people, not in the courtroom, but on the prairie, which came before that. They are my father and some other deceased relative whom I do not recognize. They have never been together; I only speak with one of them, never two at the same time.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Everything was light; everything gave off a more intense luminosity than usual, except for the stage where the judges were.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     La pradera en la que me ví andando. La sensación de felicidad que emanaba de cada brizna de hierba. Eso sí que era bello, peculiar y extraordinario.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wellbeing, happiness, crammed with happiness, even when I was being judged. I was concerned to hear the sentence.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Era taoísta

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Soy taoísta

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        None and all at once.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few seconds afterwards. It seemed wrong to my friend that I asked her 'Who are you?'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Before this, I had had two motorcycle accidents. I remember nothing about them. I just have the feeling that from the time of this experience in the hospital, I go to and come back from this wonderful prairie-land, involuntarily, while I sleep. Also, I have the feeling of having been there before, but I don't know when.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know that it happened because it is the first thing I remembered when I returned to my body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't really understand the meaning of real in the previous question or this one.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Everything went slowly, there was no hurry. I had an infinite patience. I was not in a hurry to get anywhere; I was enjoying being where I was.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thanks for taking my experience as Near Death, when I physically was not anywhere near death. I have the feeling that I was at the edge, but have no proof of that. Thank you for your time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_g_nde.html