{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_j_nde.html","mytitle":"David J NDE 922","mylang":"de"}
          	        David J NDE 922  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						396  David J NDE  922  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I took a large dose of a dissociative anesthetic I had been abusing for a few weeks, in a half-assed suicide attempt.  I was very depressed at the time.  I was online for the first half of the experience, trying to talk on instant messenger.  As time wore on, I was less and less able to communicate.  I was so disoriented my typed words came out as a jumble of letters with an occasional intelligible word thrown in here and there.  As the minutes passed I became less and less interested in being online and spent more and more time puking.  I started to notice a ringing tone in my ears, which eventually got so loud I couldn't hear anything else.  I've heard other people who were definitely near death speak of hearing a tone or ringing in their ears so that makes me think I was actually close to death.  Eventually I puked up everything in my stomach (though it had been hours since I took the drug so it was already in my system) and decided to lay down to die.  I crawled over to the bed and collapsed in a heap.


Some time passed and eventually I found myself in a bright tunnel travelling very fast.  I was at least vaguely aware of the NDE phenomenon so I realized I must be dying.  At first, I was upset, realizing that I had succeeded and starting worrying about the people left behind.  As I travelled down the tunnel, I felt these fears stripped away from me one by one.


Eventually the tunnel let out onto a platform with a marble floor.  There were various people milling about in grey hooded robes.  One of them came up to me and introduced himself as my guided.  The architecture of the place I was very Greek in style with columns and such.  I don't believe it was heaven OR hell.


Around this point, my emotional situation took a turn for the worst.  I felt a very strong feeling of depression or failure or something along those lines.  This persisted throughout the experience.  This is just an interpretation based on subsequent studies of NDEs but I think it probably had to do with the way I got there (suicide attempt) and the fact that I hadn't completed my mission.


I don't really remember a lot of what happened next, but I know at one point I visited a site of some special significance.  There was a large circle of some type, and I stepped inside it I could feel the love of God radiating into my body.  It was somewhat impersonal in that I had no actual communication with God, just the feeling of warm love.


There was only a small, event after that, that I can remember, which involved contact with a deceased family member, which I will not recount here.


I don't remember returning to my body.  I woke up the next morning feeling like I had been hit by a train.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Suicide attempt    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Uncertain of how close to death I was.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Did not look at myself, so unknown.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Beforehand, very confused.  Once I was in the tunnel my thoughts were clearer than they had ever been.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the tone before I passed out on the bed.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Very bright tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Various grey robed humans, the only one I talked to was my guide.  Didn't recognize any of them.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The tunnel was very brightly lit, yes.  Otherwise, no.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place I was in wasn't heaven, but it wasn't bad looking at all (nice marble floors, towering white columns, etc.).

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     If I did, I don't remember it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Quaker

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Started believing in God and seeking out a liberal religious group to belong to.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I've had a few mystical experiences recently.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the fact that it was unlike anything I had ever experienced.  The worst part was the feeling of depression/failure that went along with it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I shared this experience on the NDE list on 'Yahoo Groups'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   The mystical experiences were similar in that they weren't like anything I had experienced prior to the NDE, but without the negative feelings that went along with the NDE.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish I remembered more of it.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_j_nde.html