{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"David D Probable NDE 6010","mylang":"de"}
          	        David D Probable NDE 6010  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2835 David D Probable NDE 6010  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a serious liver disease and I was taken to the hospital by my sister. I heard them tell her that I did not have long to live. I saw a priest and nun over me, giving me Last Rites. I went to another place.  About as much as I can say about it is that it wasn't our world, although it was in the same location. The presence of Jesus within a mist, or cloud, was all around me. I was told that He had things for me to do. Still in that other world, I was introduced to all the other patients on the floor. When I awoke the next day, I knew everyone's names. They thought I was nuts, or looked like they did, anyway.

I was told I had to have a liver transplant.  About two to three months later, I was finally placed on the transplant list.  That was on Good Friday.  I called them the next evening, late, to find out about something.  They called me right back and said I had to be at the hospital the very next morning, because they had a liver for me. I received my liver transplant on Easter Sunday.

The presence in the hospital of Christ in the misty clouds, and then the timing of the event, the fact that I had my transplant on Easter Sunday, profoundly affected me.

I realized later that Christ had been speaking to me all my life. He continues to do so.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec. 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  While still in the other place, I was shown all the other patients, each in their own room, on that floor of the hospital. I was told their names. The next morning when I awoke, I went walking around the ward, greeting them by name.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could hear a pin drop in other rooms that were behind closed doors. I can still sense a difference in the way I perceive people, the smells that they have, their thoughts. (While not exactly reading their minds, I sense what they thinking.) My ability to understand is much deeper now.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It's hard to tell what time it was because there was no time in that place.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see, as if in a picture, people saying words around me, and also in other rooms with the doors closed. I could also hear the nurses at the nurses' station, and it was not even close to me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear and sense everything.  It was amazing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was surrounded by a mist, or cloud, that I felt safe in. I had no questions at all.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and peace. I had no questions. I later figured out that all questions that we humans have are fear-based.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I knew we all will have a chance to accept God as He is. I knew we all are His children. I knew that God is much bigger than I can ever explain.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I sensed, and knew, that this world and the next are so close to each other, it's hard to describe. And that everything is going according to God's plan.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was raised Christian, but did not practice or believe in the Faith.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     What little faith I had is now like a rock.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have learned through my experienec is that not to make God as small as my mind. I learned that scientist of the day and religous leaders also make God as small as their minds. They try to catalog God, to make Him fit with concept of Him. That includes most if not us all regarless of occupation.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now value my relationships with people. Before, the people in my life were used, not really loved.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was in the presence of The Christ, who told me I wasn't going to die and that He had work for me to do.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   The Christ.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It was a sense that we all were children of the same Father. By the Christ Presence that was with me I knew we were all connected.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It seems as if I've answered this qusetion. God (Christ) exists and I've met with His presence of that I have no doubt.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My purpose is serve to God.  I did not know that before.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The Universal Christ that was with me in His presence showed me my brothers and sisters as we went around the ward and introduced me to them. I was special and not special at the same time, if that makes any sense.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I could sense that we all have more to come, from my Companion, The Christ.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     It took me awhile to digest it all and am still doing so 7 years after the event. The awareness that I came away with is He loves each of us equally and specifically at the same time. Sometimes when I try to explain it doesn't make any sense. Especially to other people.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The Christ Presence that surrounded me introduced me to all His love for me and everyone elas on the ward regardless of sex, race or religion.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love more, and I care less about what people think of me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can only say this is true to me. It does matter that someone else does not believe me. Others see it differently. I know what I felt where I was and what happened to me. Someone elses idea of what happened does not concern me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sense intent. I can't read a person's mind, but I can sense their intent. This can be good and bad at times, because people's intent can change as they get to know you.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Recognizing the presence of The Christ and the loving, all inclusive emotion that he has for each one of us. He showed me this, and it is very meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    6-10 months afterwards. Some people thought I may have been hallucinating, some believed me, and some thought I was nuts. As I continue with my life, those who did not believe me are slowly changing their minds. Those who believed to start with, their faith is getting stronger. And some, will never accept that what you went through was real.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read some about it, but never really thought about it much.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I came home stunned. My life focus was turned upside down. What I had considered was of value, all of a sudden wasn't.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The more I think it about it, the clearer the picture becomes.  About 1 1/2 years afterwards, I was told I was going to die within 6 months. The presence of The Christ came again and told me, 'No, I wasn't.' I'm still here. That speaks for itself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   About 1 1/2 years afterwards, I was told I was going to die. Then Presence came to me again and said I wasn't.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  Not really. I am still sifting through it after 7 years.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_d_probable_nde.html