{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"David B Possible NDE 9613","mylang":"de"}
          	        David B Possible NDE 9613  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						5178 David B Possible NDE 9613  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    When I was 3 years old, I had the pneumonia.  By the time my mom got me to the hospital, she said my health was worse. 

  All I remember is a huge, loving light-being who was healing me and made me feel good. I told my mom and nurses about the Being, but they couldn't see her.   

I got better and my mom just said that was my angel. I now know the Being is one of my spirit guides.  

  I have had pre-birth experiences since I was a child.  My research hasn't shown me if it is tied to the NDE or if I would have had these experiences anyways.   
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 3 years old. I was born in 1984  
  
NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness.        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Pneumonia. My health had gotten bad from what my mom said, but I barely remember the pain before my spirit guides showed up  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  Unsure.  I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was so young, it's hard to say. But  I remember the Being helping me, so it would be when she arrived.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Too young to say  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't remember  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     My memories were of her healing me and loving me  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   She was a light being  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I was young but it has played a major role in understanding everything now  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I'm unsure if my Pre-Birth Experiences came from this or not  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   My mother was Catholic  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths.   I have had Pre-Birth Experiences since a child but feared talking about them except with my mom and not much.  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experienc.e     My family was not into this kind of stuff  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Too young but it does now, it allows me to be stronger on my spiritual experience  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   My spirit guide, one of them because after my spiritual awakening as an adult, I found my girl dead from an overdose.I watched her being healed after I contacted source. I asked them if my experiences were real to heal her and I would start living my life. She healed and I felt and saw the miracle.  I started researching pre-birth Experiences and started growing spiritually to where I channel my spirit guides and source now.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Same answer about Pre-Birth Experiences  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     My spirit guide came to me from source  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My life is dedicated now to helping people with Pre-Birth Experiences and Near Death Experiences and other spiritual experiences  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I have had my Pre-Birth Experiences since I can remember as a child and this was at 3 so I just don't know  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     She loved me to health  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I knew that I had someone that was with me that wasn't of this world  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More loving  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was so young  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  What I remember was strong and has remained strong throughout my life  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Pre-Birth Experiences  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That they just loved me  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mom and I would talk about it  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Too young  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Realer than real, lovely  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Realer than real  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Would discuss with you but uncertain  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Fascinating and thank you for all your work and everyone that has shared  

     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_b_possible_nde.html