{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_b_nde_4908.html","mytitle":"David B NDE 4908","mylang":"de"}
          	        David B NDE 4908  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2512 David B NDE 4908  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During a car trip with my wife I had to stop because of a severe illness with sudden sweating, precordial, and neck pain. I was taken by ambulance to the hospital and subjected to all appropriate therapies.

I felt a progressive loss of consciousness as I was fast sinking down into a vortex. I generally felt alarmed and distressed, but perceived everything with clarity. Then there was nothing, absolute nothingness. I do not know for how long, and suddenly I was conscious at the same time of a strong electricity shock. Then I woke up out of the body, or rather without a body.  I was in a not well-defined tunnel.  I moved weightlessly through the tunnel, from an initial darkness that gradually grew lighter. I did not see any form of objects or people, but I felt the reassuring presence of beings or incorporeal souls.  I could not distinguish them from each other, but I felt as full of love and desire to help and accompany me. I felt they were my deceased relatives or friends who were in close contact with me.  They pushed me gently towards one direction. My mood was an indescribable bliss, like heat without temperature but made of love and total satisfaction.

Then suddenly it's all over and I found myself in the middle of the team of doctors and nurses.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  luglio 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A myocardial infarction with a following cardiac arrest and resuscitation in the hospital with a defibrillator (fourteen shocks).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I felt myself transported in one direction.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I felt myself transported in one direction.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My knowledge of space and time was altered because I did not realize the passage of time or spatial dimensions.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was not a real tunnel but it was as if there was a unidirectional flow with no clear demarcation of space limitations.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not know who they were, neither did I see them but I knew they were my dear ones and maybe even some dead friends. I felt their presence all around me.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   At the beginning it was dark and then there was a sort of glow.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A kind of ecstasy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I have not learned anything specific.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   ebraismo

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   ebraismo

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The mood of ineffable bliss and detachment from the body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The mood that I experienced and the presences which I felt as friends.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke with my family members about it after a few days. Their reaction was considerable interest but no wonder as everybody like me were made aware of these phenomenon. I didn't feel their particular influence because of them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have no explanation of the phenomenon and I consider equally acceptable the theory of the threshold of the afterlife that is the physiological materialistic one. I learned from reading magazines and books of science. I do not think that they influenced me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I consider any real experience as real. Also, a dream is real as it occurs even in our minds. This experience is real, even if you do not know what nature is. My hope is that the 'mystic' interpretation is real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It increased my hope, almost certainty, of a possible post-mortem survival.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire seems to me exhaustive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_b_nde_4908.html