{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_a_nde.html","mytitle":"David A NDE 4175","mylang":"de"}
          	        David A NDE 4175  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2045 David A NDE 4175  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting in the backseat of an auto that ran a stop sign with an obstructed view and crossed a major highway. I was sitting in the rear seat behind the driver and the car was struck broadside by an auto traveling seventy-five miles per hour. At the time, I was not wearing a seatbelt, which allowed me to react as I saw the impending impact by the other car. As I dove away from the point of impact, the crash crushed the car where I sat and I was ejected from the vehicle.

As I was thrown across the highway and sustained head trauma and other injuries, in my mind I was floating above the accident scene watching the events unfold. The scene was moving in extreme slow motion and most likely took place over less than a minute. But to me it was unfolding over an extended period. I also experienced my life flashing by with numerous scenes and memories of my childhood and vivid memories of loved ones who had died previously as well as current friends and relatives. I also experienced traveling down a tunnel seeing many of my deceased relatives who seemed to be welcoming me. All these experiences were calming and I felt at peace with the world and myself. Only when my reality returned as I became conscious at the scene did I realize that I had not died.

Later, while in the hospital and during the next few weeks I asked my parents and wife about the scenes that I was able to describe. For example, I described two dogs owned by my grandmother that my brother and I had played with when I must have been two or three years old. Many of the scenes that I was able to describe were from early in my life that I can't remember today.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was a passenger in an automobile that was struck broadside by another auto traveling at seventy-five miles per hour.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While 'floating' above the scene.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While 'floating' above the scene.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As stated, the events seemed to occur in a slow motion time frame.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I recall that everything seemed to be clearer to me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As described, I was passing through a long tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't recall communication but passed by numerous deceased loved ones who were smiling and welcoming me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don't remember a bright light but a feeling of welcoming coming from within the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was somewhere that I had never been before but I am unable to further describe.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, soothing, acceptance, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     As stated, most of the events and memories seemed to provide a pleasant experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Unity Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Although I was a Christian before the accident, I believe that I may have been given a view of the afterlife that most do not experience.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   United Methodist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Although I was a Christian before the accident, I believe that I may have been given a view of the afterlife that most do not experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Life and personal relationships are a gift from God; make the best effort to sustain them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time, I had not heard of out of body experiences that others may have experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing deceased loved ones who seemed to be welcoming me to somewhere.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared some of the experiences with my wife and mother early, but waited several years to truly open up to others about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   In 1972 prior to my auto accident, I had not heard of anyone else experiencing near death experiences similar to mine. It was only when I began to read about other similar experiences described by others that I acknowledged that I was not alone.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Since I could not explain the experience either to myself and to others adequately, I tended not to share the experience with anyone who was not close to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is still not totally clear to me. Today I believe God gave me additional time on earth for some unknown reason, and I need to praise Him and let me live hopefully as a role model to others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Other than bringing into this life two sons, this has been the most moving experience I ever experienced and I feel that I am still trying to fully understand it and what it means.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_a_nde.html