{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_nde_3405.html","mytitle":"David NDE 3405","mylang":"de"}
          	        David NDE 3405  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1346 David NDE 3405  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up with a feeling like heart burn in the middle of my chest at 6 am. Spent three hours trying to make it go away when I decided to go to emergency room. Got to emergency room and they made arrangements to fly me there by helicopter to the Cath Lab for surgery. Went into surgery and saw my heart on a monitor being pumped with some kind of dye. Passed out and had the NDE.  I found myself in God's presence. No light, just a soft grey haze around everywhere. Jesus put His hand on my right should and said 'This one belongs to Me'. I was informed that it was not my time yet. I could go back but the choice was mine to make. I was welcome there, but must chose what I want to do. Feeling safe and loved and all knowledge available. No secrets. No wanting for anything. Very safe from any harm. I found myself waking up in the recovery room with nurses and doctors by my side. Everything haze with a glow around it. I did not feel like myself anymore. Like a stranger in a different place I did not belong.  My body felt like someone else's body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 10th 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Other Massive heart attack. Left side of heart not functioning. Blood clot.  Massive heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As soon as I arrived in the presence of God.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I arrived in the presence of God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no value as it does here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see anywhere I wanted to just with a thought.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very sensitive.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Dimension.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE and TRUST.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very hard to explain. Hard for me to comprehend.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christion. Believe in God and Jesus.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Do not fear death any longer, but long to return from where I came.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christion. Believe in God and Jesus.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Do not fear death any longer, but long to return from where I came.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   True value and purpose.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I seem to be able to see through lies and tell if someone means me harm from a long way away.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Communication was done with thought and not words. Normal English vocabulary not necessary.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can hear birds makes sense out of chirping. Animals really like me now. Really hard to explain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        it was all significant to me..!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife, and one friend. My wife just passed away from pancreatic cancer.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real    I had been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes three weeks before the heart attack. Three months after the heart attack, my pancreas started up again and now am type 2 diabetic. Pancreas getting stronger and eye sight is almost 20/20 again.  Doctors said I shouldn't be alive and should be a type 1 diabetic. I really don't understand all this at all. I have real problems getting along with anyone back here. Everything is so corrupt and evil, so much lying and cheating, hurting. Very hard to deal with. I don't belong here. Seems like I have one foot here and the other on the other side.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I had been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes three weeks before the heart attack. Three months after the heart attack, my pancreas started up again and now am type 2 diabetic. Pancreas getting stronger and eye sight is almost 20/20 again

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish there was someone I could talk to without them thinking I was crazy.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask about the value (not the measurement) of time. Also ask what you are allowed to take with you when you die. I know the answers to these questions.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_nde_3405.html