{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"David A Probable NDE 216","mylang":"de"}
          	        David A Probable NDE 216  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1411 David A Probable NDE 216  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember going to bed, the night before the accident, and waking in the hospital after experiencing a most remarkable dream.  I dreamt that I was flying alongside of a helicopter facing downward, and could see that we were coming down for a landing at a hospital landing site.

Then, a sense of void and darkness surrounded me, and I could sense a presence watching me and causing me to experience what would follow.  I tried to move my arms and touch my face, but I had no arms or hands to do so.  I tried repeatedly, attempting to use any part of my body, but I seemed to no longer have a body.  I became enraged and soon afterward, I could feel other beings in my same state, and they were angry too.  I could feel them searching for a place to go, and that they were envious of anyone with a body.  I thought to myself that this is hell, and I said to whoever it was that was watching me that I didn't want to be like that.  

Suddenly, I could feel that I was curled up in a fetal position and I could see a tunnel with a light at the end.  I somehow knew I was in a woman's vagina, about to be born.  I also somehow was told by the one watching me that I will forget everything and learn it all over again, and that there was no guaranty that I will be ok.  I thought to myself, this is what it must be like for angels who don't have any experience.  They're like children and could easily be fooled, or hurt.  I refused, and suddenly another being took my place in the womb.  Then I saw children laughing and playing, and teenagers talking with each other, and young people going through experiences and learning from them.  I saw them becoming old and calming down from their worries and finding peace, which made them happy.  I said, 'This is what I want; a life in a human body with the ability to taste, touch and feel, smell, and see, and especially the knowledge between good and bad.  I want to live and to have an advantage over the other two states of being.'

Then I awoke in the hospital.  I was trying to figure out if I was dreaming or awake.  I became afraid because of what I had just experienced and I thought that I maybe was being tested in another way.  It all seemed like a dream from January 14, 2000 to February 19, 2000 when I started retaining my memory.  I realized that I was actually awake and that being in the hospital related a lot more to what I feel I learned from this experience and how I view life now, but I'm trying to be as brief as I can.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1/14/00-4/24/00

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death heart rate was at 1 beat every 2min.minutes after accident. I suffered a traumatic head injury and was unresponsive, and other injuries to legs, diaphram, and pelvis.  Auto accident, which definitely would have been fatal if not acted on quickly.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       What I remembered was what I described above.  But I don't remember the accident, or my family and friends who came to see me prior to my awakening.  Even though they say I spoke to them, but incomprehensively.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Could have, but decided not to.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was everywhere.  It was also inside my thoughts, like a voice that was, just, there.  A consciousness.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anger, sadness, confusion, anxiety, astonishment, helplessness, and the feeling of being trapped.  Then, happiness, uplifted, wonder, and the realization of certain truths.  Finally, thankfulness, and humility.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I'll be blunt.  We have a long way to go; I mean the Christians and the Jews, to even get a fraction of the way close to love.  The way God meant it to be.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, but I still have not figured out how to express what I learned to people on a large scale without causing an uproar.  What I explained about my experience was as brief as I could make it.  I am suffering a bit of depression now because of what I feel I have discovered.  It involves humanity in its entirety.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Based on what I feel I've learned, we have a long way to go to true liberty and love, and peace.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Belief in a supreme being.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   The same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Yes, but I would rather not talk about it until I'm ready.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was life itself, with understanding as a human.  The worst part was life without a body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my mom and my brothers.  I tried to explain it to my wife, but she was not very empathetic toward my situation.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not now.  I need to put it all together.  Then maybe I'll have a lot to say, so watch out world!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it's a wonderful questionnaire.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_a_probable_nde.html