{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1david_a_nde_22386.html","mytitle":"David A NDE 22386","mylang":"de"}
          	        David A NDE 22386  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					David A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2501 David A NDE 22386  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was nine yrs. old and died at a family party at my house.  I swallowed at long lollypop spaceship.   I started choking and I was scared and could not breathe, I closed the door to my room, because I didn't want to get in trouble.  I was alone. I know I saw darkness and felt very calm and quiet then I could see myself lying in the corner, curled up.  I saw my cousin open my door and come to me and he is talking to me while I am looking down from ceiling.  Then he touched me, pushes on me, and screams.  He runs out of room and my uncle and father come in, grab me, and start to shake me.  He was yelling and carrying me out to living room. I could see my grandmothers crying and screaming on sofa.   It is panic, put I am so calm and at peace.  They have me upside down shaking me and blood is coming out of my nose and mouth.  I see them sticking a knife or fork in my mouth to dislodge the obstruction and get air.  Nothing was working.  There was all types of screaming and panic and I was looking down feel fine.  They brought be outside to get me in car  I could see my house, I could see all the people gathering from neighborhood, I was sitting on the telephone pole and I felt there was someone with me on the wire or pole.  I could her a lady say ‘he is dead.’  My Mother screamed.  My Father held me, took me to back seat of car, and tossed me in car.  All I saw was a super flash and blackness.  I was at hospital for days with tubes in me.     

The day after, my parents brought me home.  I had lost allot of my childhood memory.  Still to this day, I look at photos I do not remember.   I told my parents a few weeks after how I saw everything from above and told them how peaceful it was.   They really never talked about it or try to bring it up.   

A year later, I started to see visions or spiritual beings in my house of a lady.  I would wake up and standing in hall way was lady.  I would go to my mother and tell her.  This went on for months until my mother experienced what I was seeing.  As years went on up to this day, I have had many encounters.  I do not know why?  It is all positive.   

My Uncle who is ninety and World War 2 veteran came and visited me last month.  He finally told me what happened that day.  He told me he had seen so much death in WW2.  But my death was the most horrific he had ever encounter and seen.  I was telling him when they were sticking fork or knife in my throat and all the bleeding.  He said what?  There was nothing we were sticking in your throat that was my aunties hand and finger nails cutting the inside ripping at my throat.  That was causing all the bleeding.   He stated it was a miracle that we are talking today.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   Was not breathing and died in my room. I could see myself.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could not see my outer self.  I was light, I was at peace, I was calm, I was not scared, and I could intake everything.  It was so clear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was dead.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It felt quiet and peaceful but looking at everyone else and my lifeless body was frantic for everyone else. I could see but not feel it or connect to it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt a person or something with me on the wire telephone pole.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is hard to describe.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and calm. I wasn't scared.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I love life and people.  I feel I have a purpose of being hear and that every person on earth is hear for a reason.  I believe we all have a gift to touch others in a positive way.  There are living angels and spiritual angels.  I know all are religions fall together and should grow together.  There is no religion that is better than the other is.  So many people have it wrong.  If what I experienced.  That means we all will leave are bodies in a higher energy power and level.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have seen, felt and experienced many!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was the peacefulness and calm, worst part was forgetting my childhood.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people get freaked out and others light up when they hear it.  I have learned to tell those who could understand.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had very clear and real visions and dreams of passing friends and family members.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_a_nde_22386.html