{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dave_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Dave R NDE3639","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dave R NDE3639  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dave R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1644 Dave R NDE 3639  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There are some things about this experience that I can't put into words and won't try because it will probably deliver the wrong impression.

In mid-November 1974, I was twelve years old and was introduced to cigarette smoking. I remember watching my father draw in his cigarettes as I grew. One of my friends handed me a cigarette and I lit it and took a draw and inhaled just like my father did. It was painful and I remember bending over trying to find air. I was gasping. The next thing I recall I was in a state much like a dream where it was dark but there was something in front of me that at that moment I identified with but can't now, sorry! All I can say about it is it was bright and lit and the only colors I can put to it is white and yellow. I then felt myself moving forward very, very fast. What is difficult to explain is at the very same time. I was able to see some of my surroundings.  I was sitting upright on the ground in the schoolyard where I had fallen and I was looking at the toes of my shoes.

Little by little I began to become more conscious of the state I was in and was looking up at the object before me getting closer and acknowledging more and more it's power and greatness. The feelings I felt about its greatness where not just mine but I had a sense that that feeling was shared from many others as I did not feel alone although I didn't see anyone. I had absolutely no thoughts of my life or what just happened. I just focused on the lit object.

As the speed of my movement continued it was interrupted with sounds that seemed foreign and I immediately lost focus on the lit object and focused on my toes, still sitting upright only this time I saw and felt my hair in my face. I felt and heard a buzzing noise and sensation and awoke looking up at my scared friends as I lay flat on the ground. I remember being in pain with a big knot on the back of my head.

I never forgot this over the years and never thought about its significant until I began to get older. I fainted many times in my life after that but never experienced what I did on that day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 15, 1974'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  Loss of ability to breath  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Well, all I did was pass out because I couldn't breathe. Two people with me had scared faces when I awoke. They said I wouldn't wake up and one thought I was dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment when I felt many share my feelings of the greatness of the lit object I saw before me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Boy this is tough. This is why I never talked about it until now. Vision was not the same. It was more of a focus than vision although I can remember and reflect details that I can easily explain in a vision, such as depth (when I was looking at my toes) and the colors of the object. I don't know if this belongs in this column, but included in that focus was the awareness of feeling and feelings shared.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only remember hearing things after I quit focusing on the object.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I wouldn't say a tunnel but something more like a series of rings.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Saw no other beings.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Definitely saw a light with huge significance and importance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I remember being in a shared state with many many others. That is the best I can explain.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I think I did. I didn't know what to think at the time but I remember sitting upright while on the ground and looking at my toes. However, my physical body was lying flat on my back. I did not take notice of it by turning around and looking at it, I just looked at my toes and was upright.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw or experienced nothing of the sort. I did not learn anything that helped me in my life but I do reflect sometimes on the importance of the lighted object.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Not really religious.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Believe in a creator.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Pretty much all of it. The feeling I had at different points, the knowledge I had of what I was looking at when in this life it doesn't even exist, the absolute certainty of the power and greatness of what I was looking at.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the extreme power and importance of that lighted object.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was a child at the time and didn't know what to do with it but definitely felt something had happened. That object, and the significance about it is just too powerful to write off as a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I feel I will see that again at the end of my life exactly the way it happened before but be allowed to continue and find out more about the lit object and the feelings around it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that as time progresses I feel I need to discuss it but will never do such a thing with people I know. At the same token, I don't want to be associated with storytellers either. I have always been curious about what happened to me that day so I have read many accounts from different people and just have trouble believing many of them.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing else.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dave_r_nde.html