{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dave_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Dave N NDE 3970","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dave N NDE 3970  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dave N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1897 Dave N NDE 3970  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The following event is disclosed after consultation with professionals in the study of Near Death Experiences 'NDE'. Their dedication and professionalism is extremely beneficial to those that seek the truth and understanding needed by individuals whom have been blessed with life after an experience with near or clinical death. I toiled for a long period trying to talk to people of my experience only with disbelief and skepticism. I encourage all, if they know of anyone that experienced such an event, to mention that support and study groups exist for survivors.

On Friday, March 17, 2006, I underwent a cardiac catheterization to determine an irregular stress test. I also was diagnosed with arterial fibrillation, but results from the test were needed first to determine treatment.

Unfortunately, the cardiac catheterization revealed a blockage on the left side of the heart and that open-heart surgery was the only choice. Two arteries could be swapped for the two blockages. While my wife was scared, the doctors felt this was a routine operation; however, the blockage was so bad (widows heart), we were informed that I would be required to stay in the hospital and that the operation would be scheduled for Monday morning, March 20, 2006.

The night before the operation, we were greeted with friends and colleagues from work. Everyone was reassuring all would be well and that this was a routine operation. We were even in a specialty hospital, Kansas Heart Hospital, Wichita, Kansas. I had a carefree attitude towards the operation at first. That was until, that evening, Sunday, March 19, 2006. Everyone had left that night and my family had planned to be back in the morning. The hospital staff did their routine duties and placed an IV in preparation for the operation along the testing and needed preparations.

I did not sleep well, so I roamed the hospital with my IV tree. I happened to be in a small hallway with an exit door and didn't realize what was about to happen. The big two exit doors opened, outside was an ambulance service vehicle and driver walking in. This hospital didn't have emergency services; I turned around standing in place and was shocked to see a rolling hospital bed being rolled down the hallway towards the exit with a body bag, with a deceased patient. Reality sunk in, I had no one to talk to, and then turned my carefree attitude turned into fear. The hospital staff gave me a sedative to sleep.

The morning came around; it was Monday, March 20, 2006, 7:00 am, time for surgery.

The staff had me ready to go and I recall being wheeled away with my wife by my side. I was wheeled into the operating room and 'lights out'.

I was told that the operation went well after I came to my senses in the afternoon. The doctors bypassed two arteries on the left side and performed a maze procedure for the arterial fibrillation condition since it was an open-heart procedure.

After the operation during the day of March 20, 2006, my clinical data indicated my body vitals were normal and that arterial fibrillation was still present by the erratic heartbeats. The plan was to recover from surgery and to evaluate future treatment later.

I'll mention this now; let there be no doubt, what I'm about to explain occurred March 22, 2006, was a NDE and can be clearly differentiated from a normal (hallucination(s)) occurrence(s) due to medication from such critical illness and treatment. I know the difference and feeling from my experiences. I have many hospital stories of how I was treated, attended too (or not), medicated, even while in a coma. I did lose sense of time after I was in a coma.

The first day of my operation had ended and visitors were leaving for the day. Being in the intensive care unit, the hospital time limited visitor visits, pending the patient's condition. It was during the first evening after the operation that I encountered difficulties. During the night, I suffered respiratory failure. The next day I recovered and was taken off the machine early.

For the next two days, it was hit and miss with my progress, things weren't going so well. There was question to my whether I was suffering from internal bleeding or if I had a disease, which was causing my breathing problems. The doctors were puzzled and concerned. The doctors continued treatments and testing to try to determine what was going wrong.

It was now Wednesday, March 22, 2006, the day continued with diminished vitals. I suffered from respiratory failure again, I recall the event like I was drowning, heavy in the chest, shallow breaths, my lungs felt flat, I was gasping for air, becoming lifeless. I was calling for help (within my mind) I wanted the magic sound of the ventilator. The ventilator provides differing tunes while in operation. I remember the staff storming in and scrambling all around, it was dark, the room lights went on bright, the room was cold and the room curtains were pulled around the bed, four IV poles where on my bed with bags, many doctors and nurses watching over me. Ah, the sound of the tones of the machine running, I'm breathing again! The doctors and staff got me settled and conformable with extra blankets. The two nurses watched from the observation window endlessly, not turning away for hours.

I continued on the ventilator and my vitals and conditions worsened, something was wrong, the doctors were puzzled, they were arguing amongst themselves, my wife was in a tizzy, praying her heart out. I encountered renal failure; my body was shutting down. It was a struggle for my family to see me failing. My chances of survival were getting less and less. The doctors were struggling, not knowing what was wrong. Late day, they told my wife to call in immediate family, as I may not make the night.

During this period of despair is when I encountered the strangest event I can ever recall. It was to be the darkest hours of my life. It was far from anything that I experienced during any other hospital event, stay, dream, and hallucination. I'm not sure how this came about, but I knew I was in trouble.

I was in spirit outside of my body. I was outside of the hospital immediate care room hallway. A colleague of mine was headed down to see me. He stopped just outside of the immediate care doors to speak with someone. I was looking at him from above. I glanced around and saw the pictures on the wall; the one of the farmhouse setting is one that I had noted on my previous walk through the halls of the hospital when I was healthy. The look on his face was one of a grim reminder, he was shaking his head in a 'no' motion. I knew I would not make it. I then was in a dark meeting room with doctors sitting around with one standing facilitating over the others with charts and information on my case. I tried to cry out 'poison', but to no avail. I was scared and I felt death. My brief encountered continued on, I felt that I was subterranean, for some reason I noted seeing a statue of 'The Thinker', and then it was dark, hot, extremely hot, the surroundings were rocky, dusty, like a canyon underground and I was led downward with the heat intensifying. I blacked out, from there I awakened into a blinding light, the light of the sun, like I said, it was so bright it was blinding, I turned and looked down to see mountains, filled with trees, a valley with a beautiful river flowing, as I turned, I saw the river flow into the ocean, untouched by humans. No bridges, people, utilities, just raw beauty. I felt alive.

My night ended in the hospital, I survived the darkest hours. In my mind, I had my walk with God. My wife's prayers were answered and I was given life again. Medical tests went on, medications changed and a procedure to ensure no internal bleeding was taking place. The doctors were still puzzled and perplexed, but were pleased to see that I came around.

The doctors had placed me in a coma and I was on the ventilator about twenty days and in the hospital thirty days or so (twenty-four in the intensive care unit).

I know what it is like to breathe again, there is nothing like the first breath of life again, even though in a hospital, the air smelt so good, delicious, cold, refreshing, so vibrant, I'm alive.

I recall my awakening after getting off the machine and I asked my wife, well how did it go, referring to the operation? She looked at me with a pause and stated, 'Honey, you've been here twenty days.' I looked at her, my mind raced with what I experienced, plus all the days that blended in during that time, I spoke to her, you know, this had to be from above. She said she had been praying every day for this miracle.

From that day forward, I have dedicated my life to Christ. My life has changed as I. I find my life giving, caring, and extreme compassion. I feel that I have been touched by Him and been literally blessed with life. I've been given a gift, one that only those who have been touched in a way would know what I'm talking about. His spirit is so alive in me, I feel Him. I sense and can look at someone and see the despair, happiness, and can see if they carry sorrow. While this is a great gift, I have paid a price for my past. I'm here to proclaim His grace for all mankind. The irony of it all, He is there all the time, just waiting for you to accept Him.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 22, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   My body was failing for an unknown reason - surgery related?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I'm not sure what you are asking.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure what you are asking.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Not sure what this is about.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See text. Saw such a bright light, then coming too with peace with the sun and the landscape.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     'e text

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See text.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian not practicing

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Absolutely.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Strong active Christian Non denominational - Been touched by Him

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Absolutely.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This needs more than just a few words, see my test in the closing part, I have been blessed with a sixth sense.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Stronger - better person, a changed man for sin as I sin no more, although we all fall down and short.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   There were so many little things - I just highlighted the major event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See text - closing paragraph.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know I walked with God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Tried, but no one believes me so I turned to your group.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it from the day I awoke to this day and always will. I was saved by God. No doubt whatsoever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not sure at this time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       People need to get the message out. I held mine too long due to people saying I was crazy.  I'm more than happy to discuss this if there is interest.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dave_n_nde.html