{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dave_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Dave A NDE 3003","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dave A NDE 3003  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dave A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1065  Dave A NDE  3003  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had an accident that left me incapacitated. During this time, I was slipping to a physical failure where bodily functions were ceasing. Several people were taking turns monitoring me in a bedroom on the second (top) floor of the house. I was on a mattress, pulled to the floor, and could see the bottom of the hallway light bulb through the door. The lights were off in the room. They left me alone for a prolonged period, as I seemed to be resting comfortably. I was very at peace and concerned for my wellbeing, but very focused on that light. (As I typed this part the song from 'Ghost' where Patrick and Demi danced came on, neat - anyway.) Suddenly the light rushed away at tremendous speed and I stopped breathing. I was fully aware and very at peace. I thought of the people I was with and was there on the main floor instantly. Some of them saw me and remarked something like, 'Look who's feeling better.' I just smiled. I went from room to room in the time it takes to think about going and then was back upstairs watching one of them hit my chest.

I woke at that point and was able to relate that I was okay. After a few minutes I was alone and slipping away again. I found myself in a dark expanse. I was not alone but saw nothing and no one. I was not afraid. It was understood that I was safe. As easily as anyone understands when it's time to blink, I understood what was expected of me at that moment. A basic translation is as if someone said, 'See,' - as an instruction to be followed. I saw and understood everything.  I knew the nature of the universe.  I knew how it applies to everything from the beginning of our universe to how we are part of it. It took many years and many moments where I would seem to 'zone out' while a flash of my experience in it's entirety would wash over me and I would get a headache from the amount of knowledge involved. Each time I would retain more and each time the amount more grows.

You have a lot of questions about things like the tunnel, why we see relatives and pets and so many more questions. I can answer them. Part of the experience was the frustrating understanding that I would be heartbroken trying to get people to comprehend and understand what I've been shown. That has come true time and time again. I also know that some people want the truth and will listen to me. Why are people clairvoyant, where do UFOs come from, what is that music people hear during these experiences? Most of all your questions are 'why'. I heard you with George Noory and you related people's experiences and responded to many of his questions with 'I' or 'we' - don't know why? I know why.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Nature of the Universe:

Science, Religion and.

The Nature of the Universe.

Cover these topics and apply the model to:

Energy, ZPE.

Physical and conscious life.

God and us and religion.

ESP and related subjects.

Fate and destiny.

UFOs and other life forms.

Time and Life.

Evolution of our and other systems.

Show how all are tied by the model.



Introduction.

What is the nature of the universe? How did all this come to be? Why are we here? Where did it all start? These and so many questions like these have been asked and wondered by great minds, simple minds, young and old minds, scholars and clerics. There are as many and more questions as there are answers. Still, one common denominator applies to all questions and answers. We only have to look at what we know as physical truths. Picture the atom, the solar system, and the galaxy. All three are the same in configuration. We know atomic particles have a nucleus surrounded by orbiting units, as planets around a star, as stars in the galaxy around its core. All that we see and all that occurs naturally in us and around us and all that we know from an atomic level to cellular reproduction to the expansion of the universe is a model of what we seek. With that in mind, we can see how the model would apply to scales of nature both infinitely small and large.

The 'nature of the universe' means many different things to many different people. The slightest inference on the subject often generates thought or discussion and debate about 'The Big Bang Theory' or 'The Divine Creation Theory'. The two main camps, religions and the sciences are divided about the creation of the universe. Both have several groups of believers with varied theories supporting either the science or religious camp. Many of these smaller groups, for both religion and science, base their beliefs on cultural influences. The two things all groups agree on are that there is life on this planet and energy throughout the universe.

There are also groups that believe there is a combination of the two theories to some degree that explains the universe, its evolution and our evolution.

Religion is a powerful force around the world. All religions are based on the struggle between good and evil. The morals and principles of the world are determined by the teachings of various religions. Oddly enough, most of the wars throughout history have been campaigned on the back of one religion or another. Many religions share commonalities, differing mostly in ceremonial and ritual orders, and so are able to co-exist harmoniously. Many others are distinctively different and clash regularly from personal levels to global scales. As mankind grows and matures as a species every religion changes to adapt to the times. Many beliefs, while maintaining the root of the belief, change to accommodate the changes to the culture to which they are associated. The changes are often attributed to man's progression as a spiritual being and our mental evolution towards greater and clearer understanding of God and ourselves.

There are a number of traditional and well recognized religious organizations associated with specific areas and cultures. Most, if not all of them, have followers settled in various places around the world. Within these, often one or more groups follow the same doctrine to varied degrees. Most often, they are referred to as the main line or fundamentalist, hard line or extremist and moderate believers. All of them have written text outlining the doctrine they follow and organized leadership to administer their faith based on interpretations of ancient writings. All of them are based on an interpretation of the nature of the universe, our existence before, during and after life. There are many less recognized religions, old and new, that may be off-shoots of traditional lines or what some call primitive. They all have varied levels of organization. They all have similarly structured belief systems in deity levels such as saints, prophets, gods for specific purposes i.e. fire, love, war etc., but every religion has the common belief in divine creation and existence, good and evil, heaven and hell, and most importantly to all of them is the soul or life force.

This is widely known as ectoplasm, conscious living energy. It is believed by many that this comes from God. I will use the term God for the purpose of simplicity. Most religions believe that God is a single omnipotent being with miraculous powers. It is far more likely that God is more like the Borg from 'Star Trek' in that there is a collective consciousness, but energy beings that, when free of limiting physical constraints, are able to unite and become a part of the whole as would a drop of water into the ocean. As energy, its properties would be consistent throughout the whole as would its consciousness and knowledge. All the experiences of all the entities would be combined in a pool of knowledge that would be akin to one mind, one being, instantaneously. For God to be a single being would be like saying that the ocean is a single molecule of water or that we are made up of a single cell instead of billions. Each of our cells contains the memory of who we are and thus is able to reproduce to grow and maintain our bodies. It is not a far stretch of the imagination to say that God, as a collection of entities, also reproduces entities like we do our cells. Therefore, we can deduce that God is growing and evolving. Likewise, destructive cells such as cancer would be consistent with the opposite of God, the devil, and that negative energy is harmful and destructive. This commonality is part of the model of the nature of the universe.

Religion is the means by which people are controlled. Many controls were put in place by various religions centuries ago to prevent sickness and chaos. In these times, there were pandemics and diseases that were attributed to things like beef, pork and other foods. The religious leaders deemed them cursed by God to prevent the spread of disease and death. Many are still traditional doctrine even though man has surpassed that level of ignorance through education and technology.

Miracles are powerful examples used to impress and humble people. Strong believers often ask skeptics how they explain the miracles if not done by a God, or how a prophet can so accurately predict future events. Many people over the ages, and now, have abilities that surpass the ordinary. Some possess clairvoyant ability or musical ability or creative or technical ability. Some are uniquely adept while others are notably gifted. Sometimes a person is exceptionally gifted and is able to astound many with their ability. This, however, does not make them gods or provide proof of God. Their ability to understand the true nature of the universe, and tap into the energies there, allows them to perform impressive tasks. They surely would appear magical to many today and godlike to a more primitive culture.

Science is an ever evolving entity that is defined as the pursuit of truth. This definition is based on finding tangible facts using logical theories and formul'. The collection of hard evidence to support theory and establish proof is a foundation and a goal in the pursuit of truth. As technology advances and our ability to study and see that which was once hidden or obscure progresses, so does our desire to understand more of our world and our universe. We can see farther than ever into space and can more accurately identify what we see, how far away it is and how fast it is going. Likewise we can see more than ever before of smaller scales like atoms and beyond. Science, like religion, has a time honored base of knowledge and practices that form the foundation from where we progress. There are many other less publicized organizations, and individuals, that have a more radical approach to science. They often challenge the accepted norms but still work toward achieving the same goals. We often hear that progress in one direction promotes progress in another direction and that when a successful result is achieved it comes from the sharing of knowledge between those working in different directions towards that goal. A good example of this is the early years of the United States Space Program. There were many schools of thought on how to put men on the moon, and with cooperation, it was successful.

Evolution, sphere, scales, life here and in the universe, fate and destiny coexisting.

When we think of evolution, we often think of cave men and dinosaurs. The evolution of the universe is truly something to behold. All the building blocks for life and everything in our universe suddenly and violently scattered outward. All the energy required to make life and the universe mixed with it. We know from scientific evidence that the universe is expanding omni-directionally. The many galaxies that have been discovered have been tracked in motion away from a center. This presents a picture of the model of the nature of the universe. Everything outward of a central point in all directions constitutes a spherical model. This model applies to all levels from the atomic to the universe as we have seen in scientific proof. Energy radiates naturally in all directions. Throughout the universe we find stars, planets, moons, all spheres. The natural shape in and of the universe is spherical. It stands to reason then that from the center of the universe outward we can measure time and age of the universe. It would be logical that the oldest parts being farther out from the center will have progressed and evolved farther than those closer in and younger. The odds that we are the only life in the universe is staggeringly low, and it is far more likely that life forms on planets farther out from the center of the universe than us has evolved far beyond us. Is it possible that advanced life forms have visited us from out there? It's more than likely that they have, really. As their systems grow older and their suns die or change to no longer sustain them, they may well be seeking younger systems. We would surely do the same if we had the capability and the need. We see this example in our oceans and rainforests as fish and wildlife try to find sustainable habitats as theirs dwindle.

When we think of the nature of the universe and observe its evolution, we see that it is the fate of everything that begins to end. What lives eventually dies. This applies to life on all scales from germs to planets and stars. Fate would seem to apply to everything, but when consciousness and intelligence is used destiny can be changed. For example, the human race need never cease to exist if we find another planet to live on before ours dies. We can control our destiny. Should we find a way to replenish our sun and planet then we can also change fate. Our solar system was created by the gathering of stellar matter and forming into planets around a star. Eventually this system will change in some way, perhaps the sun will explode or collapse and all the building blocks in our system will have to start over new.

Energy is something we have tried to understand and harness since before recorded history. Energy is defined and recognized in many forms and we know it can't be destroyed; only changed. We are continuously searching for new forms and sources of energy while we manipulate those we have harnessed for whatever purpose we desire. Some theories and breakthroughs have been made in the research of Zero Point Energy (ZPE). ZPE is accepted as the energy that is found everywhere in the universe. The vacuum of space was once considered an empty void between celestial bodies. It is now accepted that energy fills this space. Obviously light energy is there as we know that this energy travels from the sun to us, so what else could be there. This leads us to questions about the fabric of the universe, what it is that binds the universe together, or binds us to the universe. This leads us to ZPE. A very simple explanation of ZPE can be made using an analogy. Imagine a kitchen strainer, metal screen type, and a tub of water. Pass the strainer through the water and you have an analogy of ZPE and the physical universe. The strainer represents the physical universe, and us and the water represents ZPE. Water is fluid and, while we don't always see it, moves. Like energy, it is equal and balanced in all directions until it is influenced or manipulated in some way. It is also able to pass through the strainer but more importantly, the strainer is able to pass through it. This is important to understand because of the reason why. The water molecules are smaller and more fluid than the strainer so they pass easily through the holes in the strainer, or allow the strainer to pass through them. Simple and obvious, right? Now apply this to the universe and us. We are immersed in ZPE, we pass through it with every move, and it passes through us as well. Think of it in terms of density. Objects of comparable density tend to resist each other more than objects of vastly different density, (i.e. brick vs. ice as compared to brick vs. water as compared to brick vs. air). ZPE passes through us and we pass through it easily because of the magnitude of the difference in our structures.

We know that energy can be manipulated by applying other forms of energy to it. Static becomes dynamic when influenced properly. Heat energy applied to paper in sufficient amounts will create fire and light energy, communication is possible over long distances using energy to send and receive signals. Energy can be detected and measured in many ways by many different instruments, some complex and some very simple. One of the most, if not the most, complex instruments that detects energy is the living body. Human beings sense and detect changes in energy at all times. We don't often even realize it. Animals detect and react to energy changes more obviously. Many people have stories of premonitions or ghosts, or claim to be able to sense what others are feeling. If we apply the concept of our conscious energy to ZPE then we can see how we are all connected as a collective. All the knowledge and memories of everyone would be accessible by means of ZPE. Only our physical limits diminish our ability to recognize it. Some people are more sensitive to it and some are more able to recognize and interoperate it. We hear about psychics who help with police investigations and people who have had out of body experiences all the time. A growing number of people are using forms of meditation to access healing energy, remote viewing, astral travel etc.

Energy can be made to perform work. We know this every time we turn on a light. The energy is not in the light and doesn't come from a switch yet when we measure the energy at any point in the circuit it is equal to every other point in the circuit. The moment we complete a circuit the light turns on. It is instantaneous to us, but really has a specific frame of time to complete the transfer of energy due to the physical properties of the circuit. If we were able to eliminate the physical components of the circuit and accurately direct energy to the light, the process would be faster. Tesla technology seems to tap the ZPE as was demonstrated by Tesla when he held light in his hand, a simple trick as far as he was concerned. We know how to project energy from one point to another, we know how to use Tesla coils to amplify power and we know how to calculate a specific arc of certain length between two points. We can use this knowledge to create several energy fields of varied strength on a large ring and choose a point to calculate a path to. The variance of the fields in proximity to each other would serve to direct the energy to another point. The points at either end and all points along the path would be equal like the wire in a light circuit. If you were to step through the ring, you would emerge at the other point instantly, like walking through a door. There would be no effect to the body because the ZPE would be the conduit, like the wire, that would connect the two points.

ESP, OBE and NDE, related to ZPE, stargate travel using ZPE.

Scientific proof and religious faith are often at odds. What if proof of the existence of God could be used to prove that scientific views are correct? What if science could be used to prove the existence of God? What if God was created by man?

When we look at what we know of the universe both infinitely small and large, we see a model that shows consistency. The fact that energy cannot be destroyed, just changed to another form, would seem to indicate that there is a finite amount of energy in the universe that is in constant states of change in a great many areas. This is not so. Energy cannot be destroyed but it can be created. The proof of this is in the model. A good example of this proof is in the creation of a child. We all agree that two cells combine to make one new cell, which grows and divides and so on. This is accepted as the creation of new life. We also know that the energy in those cells combine and grow. This is the creation of energy in this example.

If we apply the model to the birth of a child and to our universe, it becomes quite interesting. Energy coming together from two parent universes to make a new unique universe. The 'Big Bang' being the birth of our universe as described through the ages. Our universe is as a child that grows, becomes more aware, and matures, and very likely one of many, which is indicative of a family structure. Everything in the universe, as in the child, existing in harmony to continue the growth process, functions of living and awareness of a consciousness neither seen nor touched. In each of us, we call it the mind. On a universal scale, we call it God. None the less, the model applies. Having said that, we can also say that we are all created in the image of God because we are all part of the model that created God, and the model shows consistency. Therefore, we can say that Religion and science are saying the same thing in different ways and that they are both correct. Our existence is proof of both.

Life starts as two single cells that combine to make one, divides and multiplies, develops and grows and is eventually born. Each new cell inherits the same characteristics and all the information contained in that from which it came. All things being relative in the model, this can be applied to our physical universe in that there was a combining and growth, which produced 'the big bang', the birth of our universe and the consistency throughout it. This suggests that the universe is alive and we are part of that life. This also leads to reason that as we, sentient beings, progress through time and gain knowledge and awareness, through discovery and revelation, will pass the same characteristics and all the information forward to the next generation. This will ensure the process of our evolution. Likewise, when we pass from our physical state, die, our energy, knowledge and experiences will become part of the collective pool of consciousness living energy that preceded us, often called God. This ensures the continuing growth and evolution here as well.

'God' is a human concept adopted to provide a comfort zone, a security blanket in which we wrap ourselves. The inability to understand things vastly greater or smaller than ourselves, or lack of control, is frightening to us. Man created God to be a safety net where all that we don't understand is understood and in control. To truly understand what God is we can use the model. Recognizing how life starts and applying the universal consistency found in the universe reveals the origin of God and the evolutionary process involved. The origin and evolution of man and God are parallel and concurrent. This can also be said for the inclusion of life everywhere throughout the universe. The evolution of man, and any physical being for that matter, is limited by the physical ability to transfer the knowledge from member to member in both short and long term situations. That is to say that present time communication of knowledge and experience and evolutionary communication, genetically passed on from generation to generation, is limited by the physical properties of the being(s). Removing the physical properties, i.e. death, eliminates the limitations and evolution is exponentially faster. When physical beings reproduce, the genetic code is forwarded to the new being. The life energy is also reproduced, not beamed in or supplanted by God. As every being grows, experiences, and eventually dies, the life energy and experience undergoes a change of state and is transferred, as was the genetic code to the next stage of physical evolution. This is often referred to as the soul leaving and joining God. This is how God grows and evolves as the model demonstrates. Without the physical constraints this growth and evolution presents a God like being by man's general definition.

Since we know the theory of relativity, it makes sense that a state of balance is maintained...

Use examples to show growth-death-physical experiences remembered by the mind long after the cells that experienced them are dead......stem cell work is ok-akin to amputation as far as religion goes........cloning fits the model.........disease fits the model.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1987

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Other 'No heart function, no breathing, brain function...matter of opinion due to location.'.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Space and time, while understood there, are understood to be physical.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Vision without eyes is to understand the life force or energy of what you are seeing on a very personal level. Imagine feeling what you see.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hearing without ears is to understand the life force or energy of what you are hearing on a very personal level. Imagine feeling what you hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The tunnel is a perception and the best way many can describe that part of the experience in physical terms.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     It wasn't like a how's it going and a handshake eye to eye meeting, more like we were part of the same being. It seemed like I knew them (inadequate wording) since before time. Communicated - 'See' - an understanding of what I was to do.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw many lights. The question is rather vague.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Everywhere.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      It was not overly emotional. I felt all emotions at different times and all at once, but on a level not usual, as if I was feeling emotions from every source everywhere.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Mine was more of an instant understanding of my life from the time of my conception. I learned how I, and we, are a model of the universe and beyond. It helped me live as a human being.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Short term: I understood that I would meet resistance when trying to share my experience and that I would be met with acceptance at some point. I've met resistance often, acceptance to a limited degree and comparatively less often.

Long term: The future events apply to a much larger concept than events on earth, but earth is included. They will occur as the universe progresses.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Now I understand that religion is only important in a physical sense. Spirituality is a physical concept. Love and truth are real.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now I understand that religion is only important in a physical sense. Spirituality is a physical concept. Love and truth are real.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See main narrative. Email or call me for more.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  People who would normally have no tolerance for a person like me enjoy having me around.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's difficult to express the ability to see everything instantly and convey the understanding of it. People don't have the patience or humility to listen and learn.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Clarity of thought and perception. The ability to see and reason simply that which seems complicated.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The whole experience was significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not sure how long after. It amazes and scares people. If it influences people then I don't see it. Some want to have the ability so perhaps that counts.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I heard about it the same as anyone else has rumors and tales etc. Did it affect my experience? That would not be possible.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I could still feel it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I can still feel it and now I have a greater understanding of it. I still get moments of 'zone out' and gain more understanding.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   No medications or substances, just zoning moments.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would like people to know why and accept it. There are many why questions. Unfortunately, knowing 'why' shatters beliefs and belief systems and is usually disregarded very quickly.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Some of the questions could use an 'All of the above' choice. Otherwise not much room for improvement all things considered.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dave_a_nde.html