{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dario_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Dario F NDE 1096","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dario F NDE 1096  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dario F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						536  Dario F NDE  1096  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On our way back from Atucha 1 (a nuclear power station), while escorting a five-truck convoy with nuclear waste, at a certain point, a car with two criminals began shooting at us a few blocks away at us.  I got out of the truck and started shooting at them as well, killing both.  Since I noticed further shooting, I headed off for the other trucks.  Right then, bullets hit me, piercing the bullet-proof jacket… One bullet went right beside my heart; another one reached my spine; the third went to my belly and intestines, and the last two hit both legs.


In the surgery room, I had my first NDE:  I started to float over my body and saw how the surgeons were performing surgery on me.  I was right beside one of them and wanted to touch him, but my hand went right through his body.  I got scared and suddenly everything blackened out… I then saw a light in the distance and I moved there.  I saw a green field with lots of vegetation and a river with a bridge made of the finest gold and jewels with writings in all languages praising God.


I crossed the bridge and met my grandmother and the vice governor of the Falklands, Mr. Ramon Barrios, together.  I met relatives of mine, who I could not remember, as well.  I said to myself 'I’ll stay here'.  I clarified that I was a married man and that I had a four-year old daughter.  I heard a voice telling me: 'It is not your time; it is not your time'.


I turned around and saw Christ.  I could not see His face, since He was very bright and shiny but I did recognize His hands, thanks to the punctured wound marks.  He told me in a commanding and loving tone, 'You must go back.'  I felt two hands on my shoulders and then I returned to my body.


72 hours later, according to my wife, my heart stopped again and I began the same experience: seeing my body from above, I moved right beside my body, which, at this time, was connected to lots of tubes.  All of a sudden, an angel appeared wearing combat vestments as a soldier, but white.  He was about five meters (16 and a half feet) tall.  I asked him, ‘Who are you?’  And he replied, ‘Do you care?  I am Mich'l and I have to bring you to another place.’  I felt as though I were being suctioned and blown downwards…I reached a lake of blood and there was rotten burnt flesh.  The smell of putrid flesh was unbearable.  Holes would open in the earth at every step and horrible worms would come up.  I raised my eyes and saw a man bending down and a demon raping him… and the demon was donkey-headed.  To the right I saw the anus of a giant that was defecating demons… To the left I saw people dancing… they wanted to stop but the demons did not let them.  They noticed me and wanted to attack but Mich'l made the sign of the cross and the demons backed off, blaspheming God, the angel, and myself.  Mich'l embraced me and took me out from there.  Right beside my body he said, ‘It’s your choice; your last chance:  you have seen both Heaven and Hell.  Now it is up to you from onwards.’  I returned to my body and recovered.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1/6/2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     robo en custodia  Clinical death Operacion quirurgicaBullet had impacted my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Constant.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time does not exist in those places: time is stopped.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Angels singing in Heaven; crying and grief of people in Hades/ Hell.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was like going down or up through a tank or cistern.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My Grammy and the vice governor of the Falkland Islands were smiling.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Shining and welcoming, full of love.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven, on its most beautiful extent…There are no words that could possibly define it. And Hell, with all the horrific that can be found in it.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I am aware that everything is written already and we only have to read it in the Holy Bible since it contains everything: past, present, and the future of humankind.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not to criticize anybody due to their appearance or ideas, but to help them.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     I know what people think of me… it seems like madness, but it’s true.  Every time that somebody cooks meat I recall Hell… and I have to leave where I'm at.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt helpless… I wanted to stay in there.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Evangelico Pentescotal

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Evangelico Pentescotal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel closer to God and I love Him (a lot).

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Freeing people from spiritual boundaries, putting my hands on their foreheads (hands facing their foreheads).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Heaven was the best part.  But Hell… I do not wish it on my worst enemy, not even the Devil.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Rather than due to my experience, it is because of the change they observed from me, from not caring about anything, to defending life and welfare of other people and families.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That people would come closer to God, that people would read His word, the Holy Bible, that people would search Him with their hearts.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No thanks.  This questionnaire is adequate.  

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dario_f_nde.html