{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1darlene_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Darlene K NDE 2948","mylang":"de"}
          	        Darlene K NDE 2948  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Darlene K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  						1036  Darlene K NDE  2948  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was asleep. Then I was floating above my body. I observed the shine on my hanging copper pot and the pretty colors of my quilt. I watched my body but I don't recall seeing mom in the room with me at that time. I floated up to the ceiling.

Lucy entered the room with the bright rays of sun through the window. She had no body, like me. We greeted each other happily and played, spinning and twirling in the air. It was fun.

When we stopped, she took me up through a dark tunnel with an intense light at the top. When we arrived, there was no top or bottom. There was nothing there but love. It was pure love. Intense love. Everything was okay. Everyone there was okay. They were all happy, loving beings. They were expecting Lucy. They talked with her and laughed with her. I watched them and felt the love all around me. They reviewed Lucy's past. Suddenly, I felt a being communicate, 'You're not supposed to be here.'

As I awoke, I felt pressure on my chest. I felt lips on mine. When I opened my eyes, mom was leaving the room with her pillow. I never slept with one for obvious reasons. I noticed that my arms were folded across my chest like a dead person. She seemed angry with me and said it was because I wouldn't wake up.

I told mom about the dream I had. She didn't think much of it until later that day when we got a call from Aunt Barbara telling us that Lucy had died that morning.

For years, I believed I had a psychic experience. I was wrong. It wasn't ESP. It was NDE. I was killed and then revived by my mother. It has taken most of my life for me to come to terms with what mom did to me and the rest of my family. We all suffered abuse from her.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1978  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack     I am a survivor of Munchausen's by proxy.  Other 'I was smothered by my mother.  I had the NDE.  As I was regaining consciousness, I felt pressure on my chest.  I felt lips on mine.  When I opened my eyes, Mom was leaving the room with her pillow.  I never slept with one for obvious reasons.  I noticed  For years after this happened, I believed I was psychic. It wasn't until the past few years that I became fully aware that it wasn't related to ESP. It took years for me to come to terms with all my mother did to my sister, my niece, my dad, and me. I realize now that I died for a short time and then mom resuscitated me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See above.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Colors, smells, and warmth seemed heightened before we went up to the light. When we got to the light, the totality of life was love and happiness. There was nothing else. And it was intense. Very intense and endless in scope.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Everything we did was very fast. The light was far away but we traveled in an instant. When I was at the light, I had a sense that I was far away from my body.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were more vivid. I was able to perceive details I would ordinarily consider to be trivial.  As far as transparency - yes! Lucy was filmy and so was I. The beings in the light were too.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear unspoken words during the communication process. Other than that, I can't recall.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was completely dark inside except for the intensely bright light at the top. We went through so fast.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Lucy met me in my bedroom. We went up to the light together. Some being greeted her and went over her past while I waited. I didn't know anyone else there but Lucy. They laughed and seemed to be having fun. It was clear they were expecting her. The being that told me I wasn't supposed to be there kind of scared me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very bright. It wasn't blinding like the sun. It was softly intense.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The dimension I visited was the light.  If this is not what this question meant, then my answer is no.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt intense love, joy, happiness, and sympathy (for Lucy). I had the most incredible peaceful feeling that I've ever had in my life.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Lucy's life was reviewed, not mine. What happened changed my life. It helped me to become the resilient person I am today. When I feel sorry for myself for having had complex posttraumatic stress disorder (meaning I was abused for years starting at a young age), I remember that love and knowledge are all that really matter in life. I know I will live again when this body dies. I never believed in reincarnation before this experience. It taught me that I lived before and everything I learn in this life, I take into the next, like rungs on a ladder.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Raised as a Seventh Day Adventist until I was 4.  No regular religious participation after that time until just before my wedding.  At that time, I studied Science of the Mind.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I used to be unsure whether or not to go back to the Adventist church. After my experience, I know we all return to our Higher Power when we die. I don't believe in the rituals and superstitions that most religions do. I can't go back. I want to move forward in my life. I want to learn as much as I can.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to be unsure whether or not to go back to the Adventist church. After my experience, I know we all return to our Higher Power when we die. I don't believe in the rituals and superstitions that most religions do. I can't go back. I want to move forward in my life. I want to learn as much as I can.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We live many lives. We learn lessons. We take that knowledge into the next life. All that is important are two things. Knowledge and love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I have maintained friendships for years, have a loving husband and family. I am still married after nearly twenty-five years with my hubby. I have forgiven my mother for her abuse and my dad for his distant relationship with me and my mom.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     The only reason I selected uncertain is that at first I thought I had ESP. Now I know I don't because it was NDE not ESP.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was freaked out when I found out Lucy died that morning. I also focused too much on how I came back. 'You're not supposed to be here.' I always add 'yet' myself because I don't like it the way I remember it. Other than that, the love is something I'll never forget. I can almost feel it whenever I want to. It's the nicest memory I have of my teen years.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my mom immediately. She didn't think anything of it until she got the call that Lucy died. Then she realized she had gone too far and that was the last time she smothered me. I told my sister and my brother-in-law the same day. They didn't believe it. I told my hubby, my friends, and other family members. Some of them believed it happened. Some of them thought I was just dreaming. My hubby and I started studying Science of the Mind and joined Rosicrucians. We don't study it any longer. Judy and Susan remember me telling them this same story at the time when I thought it was ESP. Since that time, I have accepted that I was a victim of child abuse and that it was NDE not ESP. I think it has impacted Judy's and Susan's spirituality in a positive way.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My cousin Lucy died that morning. I attended her funeral a few days later and wrote a poem for her eulogy. I wouldn't have written a poem for her funeral if it weren't true because we were never close. I was much younger than she was. I hadn't seen her in years. She died in Mexico.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I took a philosophy class on the critical examination of life after death. My college term paper was on this experience. In it, I used the snowball effect to show it was real.  It became even more real after I realized it was NDE not ESP.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I was smothered many times. When I was about three or four, mom smothered me and I had an out-of-body experience. She poisoned me with something nasty and I was unconscious for three weeks in the hospital when I was eight or nine. She drugged me and I lost a weekend when I was seventeen.  I have had two major surgeries. The surgeon told me he almost lost me in both instances but I came back on my own.  I had no other NDE from any of these instances.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It seemed to be thorough.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1darlene_k_nde.html