{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1danielle_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Danielle B NDE 21538","mylang":"de"}
          	        Danielle B NDE 21538  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Danielle B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1088  Danielle B NDE  21538  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I lapsed into a coma then coded during the emergency C-section of my daughter, I saw myself floating above my body.  I could see them standing over my body and blood was everywhere.  I turned to my left and there was an extremely bright light.  I started walking towards it but the more I walked, the farther away it seemed.  I couldn't make it there no matter how much I walked.  Then I felt a force, without actually seeing it.  It spoke to me and told me that I needed to turn around and go back because it wasn't my time. I was needed for other things. I never saw this person with the voice but I felt the force pushing me back down towards my body.  Before I went back into my body, I heard the doctors saying that they couldn't get a pulse or a heart measure and that they had tried it all.  I was watching them shock me trying to get me back to life.  At that point, the force told me that there were many things that I needed to do still and that I had a baby fighting for her life needing me.  I remember going back down to my body and it was like a strong, steady vacuum.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'March 29, 1998'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death .  I coded on the table three times during what was supposed to be a routine delivery and I suffered a spleen artery aneurism.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remember being whole above my body. There was an aura around my whole body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was highly alert.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The only noise or sound that stays with me is the sound of the machines and the shockers.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a bright, vibrant shining light to my far left. As I tried to go there it got farther and farther away.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was keener to sights and sounds.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Very at peace. Especially when I saw the bright light and was going towards it.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told that it wasn't my time. I trusted what the force told me and returned to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now have a renewed faith and understanding for people who have said that they have had an out of body experience. I am part of it.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Seeing the worst shape my body has ever been in, and knowing that I had a reason to turn back. Knowing that I had a daughter to whom I could make a difference.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    ’ve shared with family and friends. It was mixed between believing me and thinking that I was full of crap.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1danielle_b_nde.html