{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1danielle_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Danielle V NDE 4917","mylang":"de"}
          	        Danielle V NDE 4917  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Danielle V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2530 Danielle V NDE 4917  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Like I said I was being strangled by someone, it was a man and I tried to resist with all my strength. I soon found out I wasn't strong enough. 

I then saw my life flash before my eyes, I also saw my parents and my children in the future and their sorrow. At that same moment or maybe one second later, I felt myself leaving my body. I found I was in a tube and I was sucked towards the light. It was a very liberating feeling; there was an ultimate feeling of love and freedom but most of all no fear and no pain. Before I came to the light, I stopped and saw my deceased grandfather peek over the edge. I went further because I wanted to go to the light. I wanted to be 'there' but my grandfather became very angry, he looked at me very angrily and shouted, 'It's not your time yet, you have to go back.' 

I don't know if the person strangling me felt this or if my grandpa really helped me with certain powers. But the one strangling me let go of my throat at that very moment and I returned to my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  juli 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was being strangled.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think it was at the moment I felt myself leaving my body and when I saw my life pass before my eyes like a movie.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tube, I was sucked towards the light at the end of the tube.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my deceased grandpa; he was standing in the light waiting for me at the entrance of the tube. He was very angry with me (that was a huge disappointment because I had expected him to be happy to see me). He shouted: 'Go back it is not your time yet'!!!

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tube was a very bright light which didn't hurt my eyes though.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Ik was eigenlijk meer op de grens, ik mocht niet uit de buis stappen, ik moest in het donker blijven van mijn opa. Dus ben niet daadwerkelijk daar geweest. Ik wilde wel heel graag

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt immense freedom and happiness, I wanted to go to the light. I realized that this was death.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     In a very short but extremely fast film I saw images from my past.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary was from the dark tube to the bright light. My grandpa didn't allow me to pass that boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God, I don't go to church every Sunday but my faith has grown. I also started to loose myself in the spiritual world and that has brought me many good things. I do this consciously in a dosed way. I don't want this to start controlling my life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God, I don't go to church every Sunday but my faith has grown. I also started to loose myself in the spiritual world and that has brought me many good things. I do this consciously in a dosed way. I don't want this to start controlling my life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have come to look at life in a different way, I'm not afraid of death anymore. I have much more strength inside myself; I don't really need other people anymore. I am a much stronger woman. I know that my deceased grandpa and grandma protect me. I have complete faith in that. I feel their presence. And I know that whatever I do I will be sent back when it is not my time!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think so but I am not consciously doing anything with it. Because of this experience, I learned a lot about the spiritual life, but I want to take it one-step at the time. When I'm ready I know that my special gifts will reveal themselves.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Absolutely, I knew instantly that dying is not as bad as I had always thought before the experience. The fact that my deceased grandpa was there made me realize that a person who is close to you during your earthly life is always waiting for you when it is your time. The most intense experience is probably the fact that I have someone who has protected me from death. I don't know if that person was my grandpa but I think it was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think it took me seven years before I could tell anyone about this. I think I have always hidden it away before that. I started thinking about it the moment my grandmother died. I started talking about it but only to people who are very near to me. The reactions varied, most people were understanding but I noticed they didn't want to know anything more. Others asked many questions. But I find that unless someone has had the same experience nobody really understands.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I loved the fact that my grandpa was waiting for me and that he probably protected me from death. I liked being there, in the dark as well as in the light. In both situations I felt totally free and happy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still the same as shortly after the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1danielle_v_nde.html