{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daniela_nde.html","mytitle":"Daniela NDE 6941","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daniela NDE 6941  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Daniela NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3497 Daniela NDE 6941  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Around 9 in the morning, I woke up with a strong lower abdominal pain.  I was in so much pain. When I was asleep, I was dreaming that I had the pain in the dream. I got up as well as I could and went to the bathroom thinking that I needed to pee. When I got up from the toilet, I was already dizzy with hot and cold sweating. I looked at myself in the mirror and I was white as paper. I sat down again.  I could not hear well, I could only hear buzzing. Words hardly came out. My vision was all fuzzy. I was feeling very weak, with no strength.  I was trying not to faint. I managed to call my parents. They came over and the only thing I could say was ‘I can't, I can't.’  I felt like I was going to fall.  

When my parents got me up, in that moment I saw myself out of my body. I saw myself, the situation, and I was listening to everything. Then everything went black.  All of a sudden, I saw a white bright light.  I was listening to murmurs and I said to myself, ‘This is it.’  I let myself fall into my father's arms.  During all those moments, first I felt anguish and then fear because I did not know what was happening.  Later when seeing myself out of my body, I felt tranquil and in some way, pleasant.  

When I woke up, I was lying on the floor because I could not hold myself. They took my blood pressure and it was very low. Slowly I recuperated. They have made studies and found nothing. As of today, several months have gone by and I don't know what happened to me or why it happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4 de agosto del 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      Other: 'Estaba bien, durmiendo y me desperto un fuerte dolor abdominal bajo'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself out of my body, I was in the bathroom and I was seeing the whole situation that was happening with me: how my parents held me so that I did not fall and trying to take me to the bedroom. I was hearing ‘She is falling, I can't hold her’ and I felt them feeling very anguished.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I got up to go to the bathroom and looked myself in the mirror.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt all was going in slow motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Before the experience I was seeing normally as always, but when I started to feel bad, first it was normal and then fuzzy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing the same as seeing was normal. When I started to feel bad, I started to hear a buzz. At the moment of seeing the white light, many murmurs.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt that I could have been in the presence of my grandparents or my sister-in- law.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   From seeing all dark, black, all of a sudden I saw a big bright white light, that was attracting me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First was the anguish, fear, doubt. I did not understand what was going on. Later, I felt tranquility, calmness and I think that in some way: pleasure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist   No creo que exista Dios, creo en lo que veo, en lo que siento, y en lo que me paso.....la experiencia que tuve, me hace pensar que puede ser que halla algo despues de la muerte.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     No creo en Dios, pero por otras experiencias que tuve, creo que puede haber algo despues de la muerte, ya que tuve contacto con familiares fallecidos.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I don't believe in God, but because of some other experiences I had, I believe that there could be something after death, since I had contacts with deceased family members.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard murmurs but could not tell who it was or what was said.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It happened in the morning and by midday I told part of my family. It was strange for them, but in general, they believed me. Later I told to another brother and he got worried and frightened.  And some days later, I told my friends, and two of them got very interested and believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about people that had had it, but it was difficult to believe. It was strange for me to have something like this happen.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Surprised with what had happened, although before hand, I had one astral travel. It does not compare at all, with what happened to me. I was thinking I was dying as well as was my parents that were with me at that moment.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe it was real, but still without knowing why and the motive on why it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daniela_nde.html