{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daniel_rs_nde.html","mytitle":"Daniel RS NDE 2364","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daniel RS NDE 2364  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Daniel RS NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						706  Daniel R NDE  2364  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

At the time of my experience I was a fourth year student at Picardo Palma University. One morning my mother came up to my room to see me because I hadn't come down for breakfast and I had to go to the university. She found me with a fever. I told her I felt ill. She gave me a pill to lower the fever, but it didn't go down. I had the fever for two days and nothing helped me feel better. They decided to call the doctor. He came, examined me, and said I possibly had pneumonia. He gave me an injection but the fever stayed with me all night and got up to 102.2 degrees. That night my parents heard the dishes crash in the kitchen of our house, they heard something walking around in my bedroom but I didn't make a sound or hear anything.

Well, they took me to the emergency room of the police hospital where they gave me blood tests. The doctors came but could find nothing. They didn't know what was wrong with me. The fever went up to 104 degrees and I began to lose weight very rapidly. I lost my appetite and they moved me to the neurology department where a wonderful doctor took care of me. He told me jokes. But I continued to lose weight. When the illness began, I weighed 171 pounds but I was now down to about 77 pounds.

I began losing strength and my family and friends couldn't understand anything I said. They said I just made unintelligible sounds. I became bitter because they couldn't understand me and they gave me a pencil and paper to communicate with them. I lost so much strength that I couldn't hold the pencil. I couldn't eat by myself, either, or get myself to the bathroom. I was practically an invalid. I could only move my eyes.

My father worked a great distance from the capital, in the district of Moquegua, the port of Ilo, to be precise. He worked at the hospital of the American company that mined copper in Toquepala. They called him and told him I was getting worse by the day and the fever wouldn't go down from over 104 degrees. They put me in a room to die and that day I had a very strange experience. The medical supply room was about sixty-five feet from my room so I don't know how I heard my father's voice as he talked with a doctor. It seemed as if they were conversing in my ear very clearly. My father began crying and asked the doctor, 'Why is this happening to my son since he is at the start of his life and has his whole life before him? I would prefer to die rather than my son. I have lived a long time.' Tears came to my eyes. I wanted to be by his side and tell him I loved him. I felt very sick but at the same time, I felt great love for my father.

A little while later my father came into the room with a big smile. He hugged and kissed me and asked how I was doing. He said, 'I know you are going to get better.' He didn't know I had heard the whole conversation with the doctor. I didn't want to cry and cause him pain but the tears got the better of me. The next day they called a priest to come and give me the last rites. I groaned and wanted him to go away. It seems they understood my feelings and told him to leave.

I didn't want to go to sleep because I knew if I closed my eyes I would die. In the afternoon, I tried to close my eyes and I seemed to fall into an infinite abyss. I opened my eyes and the nurse was at my side. I had urinated on myself without realizing it. This day, as a last resort, they took a spinal tap. The doctor didn't know how to insert the needle well and caused me a lot of pain and my face and hands twisted up. They called the neurologist but my father came in and smoothed out my face and hands and I was okay. They tested me by sticking needles in the soles of my feet. I reacted well. They called another neurologist to tap and I became tense because of the trauma of the first attempt. I withstood the pain. There wasn't much that time. It was about 9:00 o'clock at night. I'm not really sure. There was a crucifix on the wall in front of my bed. I prepared to meet God and told him I couldn't take any more. My family members told me that during the last week my eyes went blank as I looked upward. I couldn't take any more and closed my eyes.

I suddenly felt absorbed into a dark tunnel that carried me upward. Below me, there was what appeared to be a flaming cloth but I was traveling at high velocity. The strange thing is I didn't collide with the walls. Suddenly I saw a light that grew brighter and brighter as I slowed down and I got nearer. I closed my eyes but could see the light as well as when they were open. At first, I resisted the light out of fear and dread but gave myself over to its power. It was as if a thousand atomic bombs exploded in front of you.

Suddenly I sensed I entered into the brightest part of a sun, and then into the least bright where I gave myself over and became part of an infinite whole. I then felt transported to a world of light and I felt I was being carried in God's arms. The great light asked me how I felt and I said I felt fine. All this dialog was communicated in thoughts. My surroundings were warm and inviting like being in my mother's womb.

He told me to stay but I said 'no.' He then carried me to a paradise, a beautiful forest full of phosphorescent colors, yellow-blue waves. The colors were alive. I was a few feet in the air. I no longer had a body. I was pure vision. Suddenly, something like a butterfly came toward me. It wasn't a butterfly, it was a large angel. I don't know what gender it was. It was beautiful. It had large wings. It carried me into paradise for recreation. It also took me to a clear, transparent river. The truth is I didn't believe in angels at the time. Now I do.

Then I appeared once again with the great light and I could barely see some old men with beards observing me from on high. I told God I wanted to go back to take care of some things. He then took me to a kind of giant screen, my life started regressing back to my childhood, and I was aware of some faults I had. I felt like an embarrassed child full of remorse. I believe those who have serious faults must feel like they are burning. That must be hell. I don't believe in a hell that burns people because God is love and He can't burn anybody. It is the conscience of each person that makes one feel whatever they deserve.

Suddenly I opened my eyes and I was in my hospital bed. I had the urge to pee. I pulled out the needles in my arms, the tube in my nose, and felt that my strength had returned. I tried to stand up little by little. I felt electricity in my legs. I grabbed onto the wall and left the room. Everybody in the adjoining beds were shocked and called the doctors and nurses. I wouldn't let anybody grab me. I got to the bathroom and peed, all on my own. On the way back, I let them help support me. The next day I ate gelatin without help. The doctors were amazed at my recovery. Three days later, I was almost normal except I had many dizzy spells. The diagnosis was that I had meningitis. I was unable to stand on one foot, and I was unable to pass some tests like grabbing the tip of my nose and others. After seven days, they discharged me. I told some people about my experience and they said I was crazy. My own doctor had me get psychiatric help because I said that I spoke with God.

After the experience, I would leave my body at night when I would go to sleep. I couldn't get back and it was terrible. It was a nightmare for me. But over time and by researching what had happened to me, I began meditating and started having many experiences outside the norm. It would take a long time to relate everything.

Please forgive me for all the typos. I'm writing as rapidly as I can because others are waiting for the computer. Thank you very much. If this helps anyone, I will be happy and satisfied.

Daniel

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Around June 1973   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other ME DIERON LOS SANTOS OLEOS Y MIS   PADRES SE ESTABAN PREPARANDO PARA MI MUERTE....PIENSO QUE FUE MUERTE, ESTABA  SOLO.EN EL MOMENTO DE LA EXPERIENCIA  They called my parents and told them I could die at any moment. The doctors couldn't find the reason for my illness. They gave me all kinds of tests including a spinal tap with four different taps to extract the fluid. My strength left. Little by little, I lost the strength in my muscles. I was an invalid. I couldn't speak. They fed me intravenously. But I was aware of everything. My ears were able to hear things a long way off. If I closed my eyes, I knew I would die. I was in a constant struggle with death.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can only compare it to when I am in deep meditation or when I just finish meditating, or after a ritual.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think during the whole experience. But when I saw my family in the screen it seemed I was very conscious of what life is all about.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I don't know how much time it lasted. Perhaps a second or half an hour. I don't know.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very much.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very much.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As I explained.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The great angel moved about. It did not fly but it had wings. They did not flap but it moved. God, as far as I am concerned, is light. My concept of God is light - not Jesus.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I explained.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     YA LO EXPLIQUE UN PARAISO O SELVA HERMOZA  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Profound feelings, I don't know how to explain them. Timelessness. It is another dimension of love, love, love, love, love, love...  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I returned much more spiritual, with a great social consciousness. I started visiting orphanages to take used clothing. I took rice, noodles, food to my poor family members. I taught Karate free where there was a lot of poverty. I believe in Buddha, Christ, Krishna, Mohammed, in the sun as a representation of God in the physical world. I learned to love and to work at forgiveness.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        What I can tell you is that some of my friends now consider me to be a seer, a prophet.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   RENEGABA ALGO DE LA RELIGION  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It's a long story...  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   CADA UNO DE ACUERDO A SUS VIVENCIA O COSMOVISION DEL MUNDO, TIENE SU FE Y RELIGION Y ES VALIDA,CUALQUIERA QUE FUERE  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It's a long story...  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That death is part of life. It is rest. Everything is perfect in the universe. Everybody has what they deserve. It is hard to learn not to be afraid of death but not desiring it, either.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Of course.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything was a divine, striking experience, where just talking about it or remembering it makes me want to cry.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Prophecy, healing.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything was significant, but I know there are more things and they begin to reveal themselves little by little.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My friends considered me crazy when I left the hospital. Many years later, I saw a movie that said many people have experienced life after life. I began to cry in the theater. I wanted to tell everybody that what they were seeing was true. Since that day, I have been more at peace. I knew that many have had the experience. I felt very happy. I have always wanted to have a friend who had had this experience. But I don't feel alone anymore.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     More than ever because my mind worked at a thousand miles per hour. At school, I was never good at math. When I returned to the university, I was among the best and I arrived at the answers differently than anyone else. I was also good at philosophy and I was always searching for God.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     For me, it was an invitation from God to experience a more rapid personal change in myself. I know that by consciously meditating one can arrive at higher levels of consciousness. I have a greater understanding of life. I know that by simply dying, there is a very special place awaiting where God will receive us.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During meditation and now during rituals following the cosmology of the Andean forests in my country.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I long for the other world, my original home, but I know it is necessary to live in this world.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How has this experience influenced your everyday life and would you like to relive the experience? What is God or your concept of God?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daniel_rs_nde.html