{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1danny_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Danny B NDE 6018","mylang":"de"}
          	        Danny B NDE 6018  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Danny B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2840 Danny B NDE 6018  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The doctor came in and talked to me.  He told me that my heart needed attention, so I was being taken to the emergency room. I do not remember anything of the surgery I had after the knockout shot. The next thing I recall was an attending nurse talking to me in recovery. She gave me a sip of water and said to me, 'Now settle down. You are going to have a heart attack if you don't.' My heart was beating out of my chest, faster and faster, pounding in my chest.  At that time, they had called code blue on me, so they told me later.  During that time, I could hear people talking and hear my hospital surroundings. I can still remember lying there and thinking, 'What's going on?' I was just lying there helpless. I couldn't even speak. All of a sudden, everything went black, and I mean black. I don't know how long I lay there in darkness, but suddenly, pinholes of light began to appear in the darkness. I heard a low hum, then the blackness was like a wheel, and it started turning clockwise. I was lifted up. Then it stopped, and I was lying there for a while again. Arising in the center of the blackness, a very bright light appeared. I heard the hum again and once again, I was lifted up.  I do remember noticing that I could think about things. I was thinking, 'Hmmm, this is nice!' Then it stopped again. Some time went by.  The humming started and was moving me up again, somewhat like fog all around me. It stopped again for the last time. I lay there for a while.  Then I noticed I was standing up.  About three feet in front of me, an image appeared to me, dressed in black. I did not see a face, but I heard the voice say to me, 'Danny Joe!' (That is my given name). 'Danny Joe, you have come a little bit early. You need to go back.' At which time I started descending and then a sudden jolt stopped me again and I rested. It was so peaceful.  There was someone standing on my left and I was approached by this figure, but to this day, I cannot tell who it was. I did recognize the voice that had spoken to me though. It was my grandfather on my mother's side. After the jolting and stopping, I remember hearing confusion around me. So many people talking, like I was making a move to another point.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July  2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I'm kind of uncertain about this. Although I did return, I was still out for some time and I was aware of things still going on in the normal realm.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert the whole time. It was like I was enjoying the trip to wherever.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though I was on the move all the time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had wider, brighter, and clearer vision.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     On my ascension there were clouds all around, it was a very comfortable and smooth transit. On the way up, I went straight, just leaning to the right a bit.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A deceased family member. Family, friends and acquaintances were all there

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Oh my goodness, the brightest light I have ever seen, but it was not blinding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, peaceful, had difficulty believing, confused, betrayed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I actually saw warfare in the future realm, with weapons that shot fire so hot it melted steel to point of a molten liquid substance, almost supernatural.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See narrative above.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know there is a GOD. I want to live to go back again someday, and this time to stay.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     they were both real and unreal things going on with me the whole time i just had to know which was and wasnt. lot of things seemed comical and lots were way to serious

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Since that time, I haven't wanted material things. I have disposed of a lot of my belongings, either by selling, throwing, or giving them away.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   See narrative above.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     on the way up there were beautiful clouds surrounding me . while standing before the image i felt the spirit move around me and  everything was so peaceful and perfect

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     life after death  .when the image told me to go back meaning there is something to come back after

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     i was shown some difficutlties of life and hardships  my hard ship was lack of being able to convey myself to a certain point having to wait on someone to carry me to where i needed to be causing me frustraion

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     i was shown love all along the way

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know I have more time to do things and make it worthwhile, for example, I have already ended some relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   people places and time all seemed accurate to me

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was shown some difficulties of life and hardships. My hardship was lack of being able to convey myself to a certain point, having to wait for someone to carry me to where I needed to be, causing me frustration.  I was shown love all along the way.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with friends soon after my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could sense my surroundings well enough to be involved in them.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am still remembering the experience on a daily basis. It was so real that I want to return to it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Some of my surroundings.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can't think of anything else. I just know this was so real that I like visiting it daily in my mind. I want it back, but I will have to die to get it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really. I did enjoy sharing my experience. I know there are some things I did not explain fully.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1danny_b_nde.html