{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daniel_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Daniel M Probable NDE 7174","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daniel M Probable NDE 7174  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Daniel M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3637 Daniel M Probable NDE 7174  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Prior to the accident, I was on a road called Shore Drive that runs parallel to the Chesapeake Bay east/west where I grew up. At a stop sign, on a side street, I crossed over to the median. Traffic was heavy and the posted speed limit was 55 mph. A vehicle, using a turn lane, was coming towards me at a high rate of speed for a left turn. To avoid a crash, I moved into the two-lane highway. I do not remember after that. The next account is in reference to the NDE. I was in the emergency room, according to the accounts I received a month later from medical staff interviewed.

I found myself in what appeared to be a confined space similar to a tunnel. Surroundings that was not totally identifiable to an earthly landscape. A being appeared and smiled. At that very moment, I realized that I was no longer in possession of my physical body. I had no conception of time but I had many thoughts. The thoughts were of my loved ones. I had a heightened sense of awareness, another being appeared between the first being and myself. I could not see any lips moving but I heard the second being say, 'I have chains, locks and keys to those locks, he is not yours'. The expression on the first beings face became angry, and then he disappeared. The second being slowly turned towards me and smiled a warm loving smile. I, at that very moment, knew that I was being sent back.

The hospital had all three Intensive Care Unit (ICU) floors opened. After awakening in ICU, and able to walk around with permission, I felt compelled to talk to and try to comfort those in ICU. A month later, I returned to interview all involved to find out exactly what happened and to thank them. The interviews conducted involved the paramedics, nursing staff, doctor and any witnesses at the scene of accident. In the discussion with the doctor, in order to gain understanding of what happened, I asked 'did I flat-line?' The response to the question was 'Yes'. I asked 'did you do anything to bring me back?' The answer was 'no, we were preparing to, God brought you back.' Life for me after the accident changed totally.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 6, 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Other: Motorcycle accident in which I flat lined.  I had a motorcycle accident. After being released from ICU/hospital, I returned a month later to meet and thank everyone involved in saving my life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I have an analytical mind but at the time of the experience, the gravity of it was felt very deeply. If I was not to return, there would not be another chance on the earth plane in my present life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the time I arrived and the beings appearances up to my return.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no conception of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Prior to the experience, best described is a life-auto-mode: action/ reaction. During the experience, the gravity of the situation was felt and had my complete undivided attention. I could not move in a fixed place.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Prior to the experience there were many sounds of civilization. In regards to the experience: I saw no lips moving, but what seemed like what I heard stated in the account, were the only sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a confined area similar to a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was light present but not incredibly bright or blinding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As described before, some could possibly describe it as a tunnel. To me it was a place of transit: definitely not earth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first there was a feeling of fear, until the second being appeared. I was able to sense love, thoughts of love and the realization I was not alone.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I realized that we are all connected and that life is a circle. The ending of the physical realm of earth is just one part of our spiritual journey.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I realized that I was not alone when the second being appeared and what transpired after he appeared: yes, it was a conscious decision that I was returning to my body and life. That decision provided for a feeling of happiness.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was raised Baptist. Experience in life contributes to my belief that all life has order and is connected.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My past life, as a result of the experience, is not a lifestyle that I feel will provide for the happiness of this life that I have remaining. I am seeking the spiritual life and the happiness it can provide.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Christian faith like many religious beliefs share existence of spirituality, the love and respect for all life.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     What we learn in our years of life being taught while a child and through life experiences will provide for our beliefs. Beliefs can provide us with some stability of such an experience and the true meaning of life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Living a successful life is important; wealth is not the most precious thing in life. Love and Time are the most precious. Love provides for the purity of life experience. Time: we are given a certain amount of it. When it runs out there will be no more.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice was clear, definitive and the presence possessed great power.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   The being that brought the feeling of love and comfort was spiritual. If he lived on earth I would not know for sure. What I do know he was their for me in my behalf.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     It is difficult to explain this without describing an experience I had as a young teenager. It confirmed what happened in the past experience to be real.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I would not describe it as mystical as much as I would spiritual.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The second being was definitely supreme possessing authority and could only been sent from what is pure and good in all life. The experience provided for me to know the universe and life has structure and purpose.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The experience itself provided for special knowledge and that this life has a purpose.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Their is a purpose in this physical world we live in. To learn, have the physical experience of life. To live it as best we can providing pleasent memories of this experience that we take with us.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The very fact of the beings presence communicating with one another, not me. The realization that if the second being had not appeared that I was going to continue on. I was fully aware of this fact.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I am absolutely certain that we take our memories with us when we leave this physical realm. We must work to take the best memories with us. How we live here on earth will determine just that.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The challenges in life to be good and loving in face of all the difficulties and hardships that comes with this physical earthly life.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The actual experience itself and the memories present can not deny Love and its importance in physical and spiritual existence.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Immediately after the experience, I had a strong religious/spiritual conviction that I carry to the present. I see the world differently. I learned who really cares and who does not. I reverted back to my old way of life for a short time. Due to my knowledge and the experience, the old way of life is not for me and is not congruent with my purpose in my life at present. This factual reasoning is why I am sharing this experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Some things changed as the result of the accident.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The reasoning for 'Yes', is that unless one experiences a NDE it can be difficult to express the entire experience and the life altering effect it can have on the person who experienced it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Best description, the event had such an impact that I could not ever forget, disregard or the meaning behind it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     This I cannot explain in detail. Through extended focus I have been able to document the validity of such a gift.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That love exists in the spiritual realm and in the physical. In the spiritual realm, we have none of the five (5) senses that we have in the physical world to the best of my understanding. It is special in itself that we are given a chance to experience it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I was released from the hospital, I shared it with ones close to me. It was not shared with everyone. It was hard for some to understand clearly. Some had doubts as if it really happened or could it be my imagination from the accident itself. They did notice the immediate change in me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience itself, I knew was real at the time, afterward and to this very day. As to why, that will open a completely new door, an explanation in that detail cannot be accomplished in this questionnaire. The most appropriate short answer is being giving a second chance in this life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reasoning behind the reality of the experience is being given a second chance in this life; one has to adhere to its purpose and experience the happiness that can come from it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   One may seem to try to relate things to the experience. The experience is very definitive and is self-explanatory.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daniel_m_probable_nde.html