{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daniel_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Daniel H NDE 7264","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daniel H NDE 7264  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Daniel H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3701 Daniel H NDE 7264  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I hit my head on a bar and fell backwards. I felt my heart stop beating and everything went black. I put my head on the ground. It was night and everything was dark. 

I blinked my eyes and saw light. My heart began to beat. I got on my knees and my head went all the way back. I was in a lot of pain. I asked God to let me into heaven. A tunnel came into view and it was smoky. Further up into the tunnel, I saw a light and it began to clear. I told myself I was glad that I was going up instead of down. I saw my body lying on the ground but my eyes were level with the grass. It was daylight where I was. 

I saw an elderly white haired man sitting in a chair with a boy with long hair sitting next to him on a stool. There were woods in the background. I remember most that the elderly man told me to make peace on earth because I couldn't stay yet. I told them I would see them again and then I re-entered my body. 

I was taken to the hospital and got four stitches in my forehead. The scoutmaster took me home. My senses were very keen. I began to see into the future. I told him I would be going into the US Marine Corp when I was 18. I told him to give me a squad of men in Vietnam and give an NVA Colonel a squad of men and we would have a show down and find out who has the best way of coming up because I would be coming up with God and Jesus Christ. This event came true as I saw it 6 years later. I joined the Marines and went to Vietnam. The NVA colonel and 14 men with him came down a trail where we ambushed them. We killed the colonel like I had seen 6 years earlier. 

I lost my memory of the NDE until a few years ago and it all started coming back. It happened just like I saw in detail that night so long ago and just what I told my scout master in 1961.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer of 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I hit my head on bar in a park during a boy scout meeting

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like I could foresee about the Vietnam war and I had knowledge of guns that I knew nothing about.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end of the tunnel when I saw a man and boy and then when I was in the car with my scout master. I was so young but yet I seemed to have much knowledge during the experience and I saw the future.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It only took minutes but seemed a lot longer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was a typical 12 year old kid with no knowledge of what was going to happen in the future.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During my experience we did not speak out loud. It was like we knew by our thoughts what was going on.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was smoky at first but then it cleared up. My body was lying on the ground about 100 yards away.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was night time when I hit my head but sunshine up there.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     At the end of the tunnel I saw light, woods, the man and the boy.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt close to God and Jesus.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I could foresee the future.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I foresaw the Vietnam war.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Christian but did not attend church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Christian but do attend church very often

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had always believed in God & Jesus

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I spoke to the white haired man who seemed to be 85 years old and a boy of about 12 years sitting on a stool.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I saw future events that there was no way I could have known about being only 12.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     when I first hit my head it was like me standing on top of the world but my feet were on the ground

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw him

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I could foresee the future war.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I strongly believe in life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     I had lost my memory of the experience for many years until about 4 years ago when it came back.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was so young it was hard for me to understand at that time.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I did not keep up with the news at 12 years old

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. After I got my memory back, I believe there is life after death and hell. I saw hell before I went through the tunnel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my girlfriend 3 years ago

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real but then I lost my memory of it

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real because of what I saw. I have a scar on my forehead.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daniel_h_nde.html