{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dani_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Dani S NDE 22646","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dani S NDE 22646  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dani S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2970 Dani S NDE 22646  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was struck in the head with a pistol; the blow immediately forced me to the ground. There I was straddled and continuously struck in the head with the pistol, a small guitar and other items. The last item I was aware of in my body to hit me was the pistol, his first weapon. After a few strikes, my mind went to a dark place with a huge light at the end, almost like a tunnel. The next thing I knew I was above my body, at ceiling height, and I could see him on top of me beating me, switching items when they got too bloody and slippery to grip. I didn't feel any pain or sense of panic during my out of body experience. I remember having thoughts like ‘What is he doing now?’ and ‘Am I going to be ok?’ I felt strangely happy, like if I had been in my physical form I would have a smile on my face. I felt no fear, pain, or concern with anything else. I remember my voice saying ‘When is he going to stop?’ while looking at my lifeless body. I saw him kicking me in the face, my hands were still protecting my face but my inner self had let go of the fight. My eyes were closed and I was totally unconscious. I have no recollection of how it felt when he was attacking me; I only have visual images in my brain of the pain I should have felt.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was physically assaulted by an ex-boyfriend. I was beaten in the head with the back end of a pistol, and other various items.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was above my body at ceiling height and behind my attacker. I couldn't see myself but I knew I had no body form up there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a calm quietness. I could hear muffled yelling from my attacker only when I tried to focus on what he was saying. I was trying to figure out why he was hitting my body with such anger. When I realized I couldn't understand him completely I let myself listen to the quiet and felt peace.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When I left my body there was a black space, with a bright light in the middle. I only saw it briefly before leaving my body completely and viewing myself from above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very calm; I only asked myself questions but was not afraid of the outcome. I knew I was not dead yet but I wondered if I was close to death or what would happen if I went back to my body. I didn't have a desire to go back to my physical form. In a sense, I was worry free and felt nothing but an unconditional love surrounding me. I felt I had nothing to worry about. I was free from pain. I had no idea what pain even was, or concern of being hurt. I felt like I was ok. Like someone was with me letting me know it was going to be ok, I did not have to panic.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My eyes were closed on my physical form. From above I could see him reaching for items and other things that were happening in the room. I had a bird's eye view.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I did not believe in the human soul. I never believed experiences like mine existed or were humanly possible. It made me think a lot about belief systems, God and the afterlife.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It is difficult to try to explain to the people in my life, it is an experience that only I went through, and to others it seems merely impossible. I have only shared the experience with a handful of people close to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part of my experience was feeling the sense of calm and love, feeling worry-free and my ignorance to the feeling of pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared my story with maybe two or three people close to me. They didn't seem to believe me and thought I was a little crazy.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dani_s_nde.html