{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daniel_e_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Daniel E Possible NDE 103","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daniel E Possible NDE 103  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Daniel E Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						520  Daniel E Possible NDE  103  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 This was only a precursor to a profound spiritual awakening that occurred 8 years later. To read the rest of my story, see: http://finalbookofdaniel.com


 *******


 Author's Near-Death Experience


This is going to be difficult, as it's probably going to bring me to tears as I recall it, but here it is in detail:


 A dank, gray November night, 1991


This was a rough time and another depressing day had passed. At this time in my life, I was eating poorly and sadly out of shape. After drinking a pot of coffee in an attempt to lift my sorrows, it was impossible to fall asleep. Lying in bed, tossing and turning for several hours, sleep was evasive. Around 3 am, still alert and wired, laying on the back, listening to the relaxing drone of my heartbeat, like counting sheep.


The form of muscle called the cardiac that so reliably beats like clock-work as was listened; Lub-thump..lub-thump..lub----(silence)-- came completely to rest . I could immediately feel the blood flow slow down, then completely stop in every part of the body. In that first second, I became "detached" from the body and hovered within and around it. It was possible to see the surrounding bedroom and my body even though my eyes were closed. I was suddenly able to "think" hundreds or thousands of times faster--and with greater clarity--than is humanly normal or possible.


Realizing that the next beat didn't arrive, I continued to feel the blood "oxidizing" as it came to a complete rest in all veins and arteries. At this point, I realized and accepted that I had died; it was time to move on. It was a feeling of total peace completely without fear or pain, and didn't involve any emotions at all. Time itself suddenly became infinite and irrelevant. In "earth time" only about ten seconds had gone by until my heart re-started beating, but "I" was also in "zero time" (for lack of a better word), or, actually outside of time.


 This seemed to be a natural progression; there was an automatic review of my entire life--every event ever experienced complete with emotions (but viewed objectively)--rolling in front and around like a panoramic movie. From birth to death, in a linear fashion, observed without sadness or remorse. Yet in "earth time”, it only took (in my best estimation) a quarter second. Yet it seemed to be weeks spent replaying my life. Once it was complete, there were a few instructions that are more automatic but then became immersed in infinite peace; bliss; ecstasy. Unimaginable love; understanding so great, powerful; so awesome as to be humanly incomprehensible.


 While I was there (and only there), access was given to knowledge; "everything that ever was, is, and will be." The true nature of the universe was suddenly clear as a bell, like a giant jigsaw puzzle. It seemed to have a perfect order to it.  In fact, it was evident that I was soon to become part of it. I was about to join the entity which could only be described as... God; so vast in dimension and scope only biblical words can come close to describing. Yet I checked back to see what was going with my physical body, and couldn't leave until it was totally devoid of life.


 At this point, about 10 heartbeats (10-15 seconds) had failed. The body I observed lying in bed was mine...but "I" (soul/spirit) knew it wasn't time to leave. My time on earth wasn't up yet; there was still a purpose on Earth (more on that in future article). When I was jolted back into the body, a stark realization hit. Here I was laying on this bed, rapidly losing physical consciousness, with no heartbeat. I then did the human thing, panicked in terror by jumping out of bed, and pounded my chest with my fist. It re-started. After walking downstairs in a nervous caution, shaking like a twig, dripping sweat, my heart was still beating irregularly.


After driving myself to the hospital, it was said that the heart muscle was suffering loss of nutrients that caused it go into arrhythmia. There were a few close encounters after that, but soon disappeared after a diet and exercise change. I wasn't able to retain the knowledge given; the human brain is much too primitive and limited to house it. This intelligence requires an entirely different dimension to exist and comprehend. Yet it is part of our three dimensions as well...just hidden out of view of our 5 senses. Yet I retain enough to remember the sheer awe.


Anyone who has gone through this, (millions have) knows how it immediately changes your life...forever.


 For those interested, here are some experiences from others:


Religion is a touchy subject and some will be offended regardless of what I say. However, I feel it is necessary to discuss religion and how it relates to my own experiences. This shouldn't be necessary, but the nature of the material on this site justifies an explanation. While I don't have an actual religion, I'm supportive of those who do, and encourage people to get closer to their God...whomever you owe that to be. Some try to discredit those that have religious beliefs and who say the future will be "apocalyptic." This is understandable, as they would prefer to they attack the motives of the messenger and be blind to what is around them.


The reason I don't have a religion is this: I had what is called a "near-death experience" or NDE in November, 1991. It is extremely difficult to put into words, as the English language is far from adequate to accurately describe such an event. I generally keep silent on it due to the negative reaction or disbelief received. It's impossible to convey the experience to those who've never been through it, especially when it disagrees with their own beliefs. Actually, some of those ancient visionaries in the Bible may be describing what is now known as an NDE.


There are dozens of religions in the world, many claiming to be "The One." I think they are all right AND wrong at the same time. In other words, in man's attempt to describe the nature of God and the after-life, he has gotten the gist of it, but given his own different interpretations and revisions. This results in un-necessary and destructive holy wars and conflicts. I don't think God wants us killing each other over him. I also cannot believe God is an angry, vengeful entity...at least not in the sense portrayed by the fire and brimstone types.


Don't get me wrong; I am 100% convinced there is a "God," "Creator," "All- powerful," being/entity. I sure wasn't before 1991. After being immersed in the after-life in sprit form for a brief time, it was personally demonstrated beyond any doubt; WE DON'T DIE. We continue in a different, non-physical form.


 Skeptics try to say, "You must have been dreaming," or "it's just a bunch of new-age gobbley-goop," or "There are chemicals released in the brain that give the impression of dying." etc. etc... BULL-S#$T !!


The result of my NDE was profound and was the most "real" event I've ever experienced. I seemed to be given an expansive knowledge and clear understanding of the world and universe that exists to this day. My once average IQ shot up to 148 shortly after. I have no fear of death whatsoever as I understand our life on this little planet is temporary and short, and what follows is great indeed. What is the meaning of life and our purpose here?? To live and learn; experience the physical; go through trial, tribulation, and joy. We are students at a school called Earth...when the bell rings, we go back home...with lessons learned. Again, I say this from my own actual experience.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    October 1991

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death Heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was physically detached.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very acute, seemingly merged with Creation.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time and space as we know it is an illusion.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The Light of God.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The Light of God.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      None, sort of objective.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The nature of the entire universe.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was everything from birth till then, but it was viewed objectively.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I seemed to have an extremely accurate rate of seeing things.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew it was not yet my time, I had a mission to complete.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It confirmed to me the errors perpetuated by the mainstream religions

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It took 7 years before being able to write it down.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     It may seem unbelievable to some, but it started a rigorous process of spiritual growth that, by 1999, resulted in attainment of self-mastery, an angel of God incarnate.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was having to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I rarely mention it to others, because they cannot grasp or believe it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I had an NDE-like experience where I met Christ.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daniel_e_possible_nde.html