{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_ta_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan Ta NDE 2080","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan Ta NDE 2080  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan Ta NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						527  Dan Ta NDE  2080  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I found myself outside of Creation, in a gray immensity with no end. Not as in a dream, but crystal clear with no interference. And all was perfectly silent. Not the quiet in the middle of the night, where you can hear your own heart beating, but the total absence of sound of any kind. Yet, I could hear with such clarity as I could never before.

Before my eyes, I saw all of Creation as in a Crystal Ball, floating in this grayness. Wrapped around Creation was a Being of stunning majesty, as if it grew from his body. Off in the distance, I saw innumerable other Creations, each with a similar Being.

I lifted up the skin of Creation, and saw that every living thing in Creation was an expression of this being, connected to this being, indivisible and of One. Every person, plant, animal, insect, microbe, drew its' very existence from this Being. Without this Being, if creation existed at all, it would be filled with lifeless, empty rocks.

Within this realization, I was shown how everything is interconnected. From the Beginning to the End. From the largest galactic cluster spinning around the hub of Creation, to the smallest quantum fluctuation.  Everyone and everything has a place and a reason. This was revealed.

Then it was made clear my own place, my own reason for existence. How I fit in the Glory of Creation.

Through all of this as I was part of the One, three qualities filled me: Intelligence, Awareness and Joy.

For the next several days, I found myself very sensitive to any sights and sounds. I started having visions of other people, places and times. I had but to close my eyes and images would coalesce and condense before me. I have seen my wife in a world where we never met, I have seen the death of our cat and of one of my daughters (though I know it is only one possible outcome). I have seen images of places I have never been, of other worlds and of creatures other than human. This passed with time, and I can no longer sense them. But even with the passing of time, I still include within myself the journey and what was revealed to me. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 16, 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was undergoing open heart surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was completely aware of everything; aware in the sense that I was part of the Oneness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All of my senses were incredible clear and sensitive.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was incredible acute.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I lifted up the skin of Creation, and saw that every living thing in Creation was an expression of this being, connected to this being, indivisible and of One. Every person, plant, animal, insect, microbe, drew its’ very existence from this Being. Without this Being, if creation existed at all it would be filled with lifeless, empty rocks.      

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy the likes of which I have never before felt. Complete Peace, a total sense of belonging and being part of such a greater whole.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Within this realization I was shown how everything is interconnected. From the Beginning to the End. From the largest galactic cluster spinning around the hub of Creation, to the smallest quantum fluctuation.  Everyone and everything has a place and a reason. This was revealed.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Having been given an understanding of how Creation is, I find myself more at peace with everyday occurrences. I am more forgiving, and am able to take myself back to my vision when I am overwhelmed by day to day living.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was made clear my own place, my own reason for existence. How I fit in the Glory of Creation.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a day or two after. I told my wife and the spiritual teacher we study with. They both were so happy for what I had experienced. It was an affirmation of what we had been studying.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     What I saw was the truth of our being. Our inseparability from the One Mind. Being given the understanding of the Nature of Reality is something that will remain with me until I return there.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is no change in my view of what I experienced, other than a melancholy feeling as I move forward in time further away from the experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Meditations.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_ta_nde.html