{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan T NDE 20410","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan T NDE 20410  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						406  Dan T NDE  20410  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I died for about three or four minutes eleven years ago and entered this other dimension that I took as being Heaven, certainly an afterlife. It was really beautiful, with gardens and fountains and small, countryside hills. The people appeared in Greek or Roman dress, very comfortable with white robes and sandal type shoes. A pocket of females was conversing near a majestic water fountain that also displayed Greek decor, with Seraphim, ivy and fruit. I didn't know what to do or say, so I just stood there and looked at them. A gorgeous blonde haired one lifted her head my way and the others turned to greet me with very warm smiles. Then a man walking down a brick path to my left suddenly appeared waving his arms to the group of women calling to them, 'No! Do not speak to him, it is not his time.'


The man was bearded and looked human, unlike the other Romanesque 'Angels' of beauty. In fact, he was wearing blue jeans and a checkered flannel shirt. He approached me to give me instruction, but when I slammed back into my body and later awakened in intensive care at the hospital, I do not remember at all what this man said to me. I recall entering the afterlife paradise instantly as if surfacing from a pool of water, the images became clearer until I was literally at this garden spot about fifteen yards from the group of women talking. I did not recall any feeling of wind, a sun or any other upper atmosphere or planets. It was daylight, pleasant, colorful, but no weather, sunlight or water other than the fountain at which the women gathered. It was a very pretty place. I experienced it all as if looking through my eyes and did not have a body or spiritual form that I could detect.


Dan T., Richmond Virginia. This occurred on October 27, 1993

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    October 27, 1993

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was out of my body, but aware of sight, sound and physical surroundings

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   This was not earth. It was a completely different dimension of life. Similar to earth's nature, but more colorful and bountiful and lush.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just voices from nearby beings conversing.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The place was like a garden, with surrounding hills and countryside.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I did not know them, the group of women appeared human, but were very beautiful and wore Greek or Roman type robes. The man who approached me was the most human, casual modern dress.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   There was light, but not Holy or a tunnel experience. It felt like day time, only there wasn't any sun or any planets or stars in the sky.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see, hear and enjoy the surrounding beauty, but did not have a body or ghostly form. I felt no heat, wind or weather of any sort.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Absolute beauty, warmth, love and harmony.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became more religious, attended church, pursued a clean, Christian lifestyle, then later got into spiritualism and investigating the paranormal.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can sense anyone's spirit, their emotions or how they feel merely by glancing at them. I never forget a face; I could be on top of a skyscraper in New York looking through binoculars thirty stories down and remember years later a face on the street if I see that person again. This is also a gift in media or movies, I never forget a face.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was being there, the beauty and peace. The worst part was waking up in intensive care with a catheter shoved into my penis and a fat, pimple face nurse threatening to squeeze my bladder if I could not produce a urine sample.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The Christian freaks laugh, the spiritualists are very intrigued and my family thinks I am nuts but are amazed at my small displays of clairvoyance.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Only that I truly believe we do not die. I do not believe for one second we are dead even when the heart stops and we are no longer breathing. Plus, earth is an extremely violent planet. I have no idea why, but it is and no peace is in sight, especially in the Middle East.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_t_nde.html