{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan Z NDE 196","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan Z NDE 196  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan Z NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1427 Dan Z NDE 196  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The time was June 12, 1982; approximately. 4:30p.m. My girlfriend (now my wife), her daughter, and I were returning from the kids' softball game. I was driving with both of them in the front seat of my pick-up. We were traveling west on route 30; a four-lane highway, two lanes in either direction, separated by a solid double yellow line. We were not wearing seatbelts. I was in the left lane moving at approximately forty-five miles per hour. I saw a vehicle turn out of a side street on the opposite side of the road and come toward me in its left lane. Assuming the car (a big Buick) would go by me I wasn't prepared for what would happen next. Apparently, the other driver decided to make a left turn. They gave no signal and turned right into my truck, they hit me head-on. I had no time to react. I said, 'Oh God.'

The following description is difficult because it wasn't physical. I was somewhere up and behind the vehicle; ten feet, twenty feet, I don't know. I remember 'seeing' the two bodies next to mine mold themselves into the dashboard as if it were made of clay. My body was there too; but I don't remember seeing it. While I was 'up and out' I felt no pain, no fear, no emotion; these being human feelings I can only conclude that I was something else. Then, as if a rubber band pulled me back to my body, I woke to see the front of my vehicle inches from the windshield. I turned and saw my friends moving. Somehow, I managed to push open the driver door, grabbed my friends, pulled them out, and carried them across the highway. Down we went on the curbside. My girlfriend was moaning, her daughter was screaming, and I could hardly breathe. Then, a woman's face appeared, inches from mine. She was smiling so sweetly. She said she was a nurse. She told me everything would be all right; then, she was gone. We were taken to the hospital and we all survived our injuries. Thank God!

Being raised catholic I was filled with much confusion. I didn't buy it then, and I still don't. To my maker, I would always say, 'If you want me to believe, you have to show me.' I think I was shown something. I no longer have to believe, I know. I think about the message from Jesus; simply stated, 'Love each other, and forgive.' Sometimes, I find myself preaching; not about any religion but, about the duality of our being. Body and Spirit. We are both.

This statement is sincere. Let me know what you think.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/12/1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     head-on car crash  Car crash, two vehicles head-on.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The human mind is part of the body. Time is a concept of the mind.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people I talk to about this think I'm nuts.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_z_nde.html