{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dani_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Dani C NDE 4556","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dani C NDE 4556  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dani C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2293 Dani C NDE 4556  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had consumed a large amount of pills and alcohol. When I came to, I was floating above my body. It was a very neutral feeling initially. I remember it being dark. I started to ascend towards light and feeling joy - although that word does not do justice to what I was feeling. Then I was told to go back. It is not your time. I remember feeling sad. I have no conscious memory of going back in my body. I woke the next day, ill from the side effects of the poisons I had put in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Fall 1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I attempted suicide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the time I was ascending towards the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the time I was ascending towards the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was not a sense of time at all. It was totally not relevant to what I was experiencing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt as if I was on the edge of being able to see EVERYTHING. It was very bright and clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I wouldn't describe it as a tunnel, but it was dark initially when I found myself hovering above my physical body.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard a voice and sensed a presence telling me to go back. It isn't your time.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I ascended I was drawn towards light. It wasn't a light, but Light in a total state of being and awareness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     What I have previously described.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Initially I felt empty, then full of joy and then sadness at having to return.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My sixth sense became more developed and is more accurate than not.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Unity

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I try to be more cognizant in my daily life that there is a higher power and to plug in to that presence.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Metaphysical, Unity and Science of Mind'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to be more cognizant in my daily life that there is a higher power and to plug in to that presence.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I knew I was not supposed to die.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Because I was rather young when it happened, I find this difficult to answer. I am not sure if some of my behavioral patterns started happening before this experience or after.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Not everyone is receptive to hearing about this kind of experience. Leaving your body, hovering above your physical self is not something a lot of people can identify with.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My sixth sense became more acute. I have spirits that are having a difficult time making their transition come to me and ask me to communicate things to their loved ones still here on earth. I can on occasion channel from someone on the other side. Electronics behave erratically on me; watches don't run, I short out car radios etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being sent back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Probably four years. I think they were more upset from the suicide aspect than being concerned with the out of body experience. They were relieved that I was not successful in my attempt.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Being fifteen years of age and having studied metaphysics; I would not be surprised that I had heard of this. It did not affect my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I continued to experience depression and while I acknowledged what had happened, my body continued to want to shut down.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. I know we all have a purpose here whether it is clear or not to us. I believe it is clear to some and not to others. This experience happened to me and continues to show to me that I do have a purpose here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dani_c_nde.html