{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1danee_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Danee C NDE 7048","mylang":"de"}
          	        Danee C NDE 7048  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Danee C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3549 Danee C NDE 7048  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt bubbles in my chest. I told the technicians that were in the room. I sat down on the bed, turned my head toward my husband.  I could only see part of him, like through a scope. I intended to say, 'I feel like I'm dying conscious.' It came out as a cold, flat, 'I just want to die.' I didn't want to die and our 12-year-old son was in the room.  I'd have never said that in front of him. It still has him scarred! I vaguely remember having a seizure type of jerking reaction to the drug.  Then there was nothing.

I was later told that I struggled and fought so much that they had to strap me down.  I needed to be sedated so they could intubate me. I'm still waiting on the copies of the medical records; I'm hoping they're thorough and accurate. 

As for my experience with the nothing: it was a moment and an eternity.  There was complete darkness, yet it was so peaceful that I cannot describe it. I was aware of my soul and aware that I was free from my body. There was no time like the one we have here while alive, on earth.  Time felt stretched, but afterwards only seemed like a few seconds.  I was aware of and thought of my children.  Then I became aware that 'everything is as it should be.' It was as if someone had spoken it in their mind and I read their thoughts. It was as if I was just visiting.  I felt complete and total peace.  I had no idea that existed, before that moment. 

When I came back, I saw myself strapped down, intubated, and swollen. I saw everyone around me, patients in their rooms, nurses and doctors going back and forth, and completely unaware of me. Then it was like I blinked and opened my eyes and I was in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a catheter into the artery to my heart for Plasmapheresis. [Editor's Note: Plasmapheresis is a blood purification procedure used to treat several autoimmune diseases.] Upon removal of the catheter, they didn't properly cover the hole and air went to my heart, lungs and brain. I felt bubbles, lightheadedness, then became unaware, but still conscious, as I vaguely remember some of the experience, before I died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The people in Intensive Care, moving about.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I cannot describe the time, there was no time. It happened all at once. It was like I was aware of myself and the whole universe at once!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time completely lost all meaning!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had no vision everything was dark.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't really hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The darkness seemed to be a place, like I had to travel far to get there.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear, then peace that I cannot describe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Everything was as it should be was the feeling/voice/message from God.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     that some people of all faiths will be in heaven, not just of the Christian religion, which goes against how I was raised in church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe God has a plan.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A presence, but didn't hear the voice as much as I just felt the intended message.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   God. Love, acceptance and complete peace.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     The universe is the mystical universe, it became apparent to me.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably existsÂ

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     as soon as I was in His presence I knew who He was

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A knowing that God exists, a realization of true peace, and a glimpse of eternity compared to a lifetime.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     that I was not alone, that no one else is ever alone, that God is with us

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     To learn from them to help others

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God loves everyone unconditionally, perfectly, completely. I have been able to retain this love for everyoneand its beautifully peaceful.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I can only describe it as: I walk in love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peace, I'm no longer afraid to die, I know that my children will be ok.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I have tried to but not in as much detail.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard about people visiting heaven or hell; that was completely different from my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real to me than anything I've ever physically experienced in life on earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       For several weeks after my experience, I could not grasp the concept of time. I have a hard time watching TV or listening to music, as if it was all too overwhelming. I still have trouble watching anything with violence.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1danee_c_nde.html