{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan B NDE 4245","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan B NDE 4245  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2076 Dan B NDE 4245  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting around talking with friends when I felt my heart speed up faster and faster and then stop. I felt myself being pulled away from the scene, but then other scenes appeared and pulled away in smaller and smaller concentric squares. This was very frightening to me.

I began reliving my life. Whilst I was seeing it from my perspective, I was also experiencing my every action as everyone affected by my actions. I could literally feel the concentric circles of 'emotion' going out from me, as they were experienced by each person in turn: I affect John, John affects Ray, Ray affects Sam, etc., and I experienced all of it. I was still frightened and sad about my life.

After the life review I was shown (I don't remember a guide) how every person, every thought, every action and every word are connected. It looked like a vast web of stars that existed in many dimensions.

I had been asking 'what is the point?' the whole time, but suddenly I was in the presence of a great ball of light, which was in the palm of a great hand. At that time, I experienced bliss, until I was pulled away and I found myself with my friends again. They were discussing which hospital to take me to.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/09/1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart raced and then stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure there was a difference in the parts, except maybe when I was in the presence of the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     For the first time I was aware of infinity and eternity.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After the life review and being shown how everything works, I was in the presence of a ball of light in the palm of a great hand. At that time, I experienced bliss.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     after the life review, i was shown (i don't remember a guide)how every person, every thought, every action and every word are interconnected. it looked like a vast web of stars that existed in many dimensions.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and much love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     See narrative above.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'raised Baptist, but I had rejected Christianity'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My ideas weren't concrete before and they are not now.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     My ideas weren't concrete before and they are not now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was the first time I had ever experienced real love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Since then, I am more aware of other people's perspectives.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I don't have words for some of the concepts.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For a while doors and cabinets would open and slam shut when no one else was at home.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was most affected by experiencing what others felt because of me. Before then I had not given much thought to it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told several people about it. I don't know how they were affected.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was very frightened because I had not heard of such things. Kubler-Ross was not famous yet. I sought the help of a psychiatrist, which didn't help much.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As soon as I heard about NDE, I realized that was what had happened to me. That's when my spiritual journey began.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_b_nde.html