{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_bc_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan BC NDE 6243","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan BC NDE 6243  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan BC NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  			3000 Dan BC NDE 6243  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

 Above All Else: A World Champion Skydiver's Story of Survival&nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here


      				  I was in a plane crash. The plane was carrying skydivers.  16 out of 22 people on board were killed at the crash. I have no memory of it and was in a coma for over a month. When I woke from the coma, I had no idea where I was or what had happened.  But there was one crystal clear memory in my head. 

  			        That memory is written in complete detail as the opening chapter of my book,  (Excerpted from  www.aboveallelsethebook.com) : 
  			        
It wasn't a dream. It was as real as any real-world experience I had ever had. I could remember the entire thing, every action, every word, and every thought.  It went like this: I was in free fall. Almost as if I had just appeared there. I love free fall, and finding myself there at that moment seemed natural. I was at home, at peace, part of the infinite sky. But after a few seconds I noticed that this wasn't normal free fall. It was quieter. The wind wasn't blowing as fast. I wasn't descending.  

A gentle breeze was suspending me. It was okay, it was fine. I was floating, flying, but it wasn't right. What was I doing there? I wasn't afraid. I felt safe, but confused. I looked up and saw James flying down to me just as if we were on a skydive together and he was 'swooping' me. His expression was that silly, playful smile he so often had in free fall. He obviously was not confused at all. He knew exactly where he was and what he was doing there. 

He flew down and stopped in front of me. Still with a smile on his face, he asked, 'Danny, what are you doing here?' I answered, 'I don't know.' James said, 'You're not supposed to be here, you have to get back down there.' I began to get a grasp of the situation. I asked him, 'Are you coming with me?' His expression changed to one with a hint of sadness. He said, 'No, I can't.' I tried to persuade him to change his mind, 'C'mon, James, we were just getting started. You gotta come with me.'

James raised his voice, interrupting me. 'I can't!' It was obvious that the decision was final. It seemed as if it wasn't his decision. He continued with a gentle smile. 'I can't, but it's okay. There are more places to go, more things to do, more fun to have. Tell my mom it's okay. Tell her I'm okay.' 

For a few seconds we just looked at each other as I accepted this for the reality it was. He changed his tone and spoke with some authority as he gave me an order. 'Now,' he said, 'you need to get back down there. You need to go get control of the situation.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April / May 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  In a Coma  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' In a Coma  from a Plane crash

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I am very conscious of the memory.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in a coma.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see everything as clearly as normal

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything as clearly as normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A friend that was like a little brother was killed in the plane crash.  He came and spoke to me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, confusion, comfort, happiness, sadness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My friend told me I had to go back because I wasn't supposed to be there.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Jewish

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Jewish

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Prior to this experience I believed, or at least wanted to believe, that there was more.  This confirmed that and changed that from a desired belief to a proven belief.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Confirmed beliefs I hoped were true.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I interpreted the experience to mean that there is some kind of universal connection.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Only to the point that since something exists after we die there must be some kind of God or "Force" involved.  Or so I think anyway.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     That our purpose here on earth was greater than this lifetime here on earth.  My interpretation again.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     My deceased friend told he was okay and that there were more places to go, things to do and fun to have.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Only that there is much more to our "lives" than what we experience here.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Only that we shoud take control of our lives and situations here on earth.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     THat James came to speak to me was an act of love on his part.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Prior to this experience I believed, or at least wanted to believe, that there was more. This confirmed that and changed that from a desired belief to a proven belief.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This is the only memory I have over a period of about two months.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That James came to speak to me was an act of love on his part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with very few people. First was my deceased friend's mother because he asked me to tell her he was ok.  I told her as soon as I was able to talk on the phone.  For several years I only told a couple of other close individuals.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did and do believe it to be completely real. James spoke to me to help prepare me to wake up in the new world I would be entering.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See narrative above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Since something exists after we die there must be some kind of God or 'Force' involved. Or so I think anyway.  We should take control of our lives and situations here on earth.  There is much more to our 'lives' than what we experience here.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_bc_nde.html