{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dan_nde.html","mytitle":"Dan NDE 2649","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dan NDE 2649  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						869  Dan NDE  2649  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I was sixteen years old I was driving home with my dad from the mall. When we got side swiped by a passing speeding car changing lanes too fast. We were pushed into a transport trailer and dragged under for about two hundred feet. My dad was almost not injured, the car hit on his side, but we hit the transport on mine (three lanes of traffic on the Queensway). I was pretty much in and out of it through most of the time spent still in the car, emergency crews trying to get me out into the ambulance; my dad was already gone in another. Once I was in the ambulance on the way to the hospital, I was more alert and taking to the paramedics. (This is why I now never forget to where medical alert.) I was in a lot of pain and I remember one of the paramedics saying to me, 'You're a lucky kid you know that.' He then prepared a syringe and gave me a shot of medication, not knowing I have a very serious deadly reaction to penicillin. The drug he gave me had some in it. (Penicillin helps fight bacteria in the blood stream after one suffers from large deep wounds.) It was only a matter of a few seconds when my vision went dark.  I could not breath; I could still hear the paramedics too. They were freaking out.

Suddenly I felt as if I could breathe again, no effort. And I could see a small white light in the center of my vision, kind of at the end of a tunnel with an orange glow. I started to move through the tunnel. I thought, I'm dead and that's it. I had no sensation of the pain I felt before, completely out of body, but one hundred percent consciousness. Then I remember seeing an image in my head, something told me and imprinted I guess, the knowhow of what I was seeing, and it was crazy as it is, the universe. Kind of like a giant bluish see-through egg, with millions and billions of light points, different colors, on the outside and inner. All connected by darker blue links, full of different kinds of life. I only saw this for a second or two but knew the 'Scientifics' to it; it's very hard to explain.

The next thing was that I was back in the 'tunnel' all different colors now, colors I haven't seen before, maybe not on 'OUR' spectrum. There was also too a gentle chiming noise, with a tune to it, it was comforting. The colors seemed to change with the notes. This experience at this point gave me a sense of energy, and happiness, not to fear anything, that all is going as it's supposed to be. I also had the sense that I knew the answer to everything, I was awe struck that I knew 'everything' but it made me feel more and more content. I remember seeing the silhouette of someone at the end of the tunnel. He was speaking to me in emotions through thought, again, feeling more comfort and happiness. When I got to the end of the tunnel it was like a big white room with a bright glow to it, and there was the light close in front of me.

I looked at the person in this room with me and it was my old friend Brydon, that died five years earlier in a boating accident, but he looked my age. I remember him saying to me again with thought, 'Mistakes are made. He made one, and he'll pay with his job. This is not your time yet Dan, I'll see you later.' And he walked into the light. Almost at that second I was 'warped' back down the tunnel, this time I seemed to fall into one of the light points on the giant egg. It became difficult to breathe again, and my normal vision came back, I could hear the sirens again and the paramedics. I remember hearing one yell, 'He's back, he's back,' and seeing the other with paddles.

I've only disused this experience with my parents and my close friend Jesse. People look at you weird when you say these kinds of things. I would say that I have lost about twenty-five percent of the knowledge I gained in my experience - most of that being the knowledge I seemed to gain surrounding 'Time'. My vision is sharper, I can see things more 3D like now as well I have a heighten sense of hearing. On a few occasions I've have precognitions. Sensed a phone call, knew I was going to see someone that day, knew when bad things where about to happen, good things as well. The other scary thing about my experience was following the accident. About two weeks later, I found out the paramedic that used the drug on me lost his job. Also, clocks don't keep time around me anymore, it's a curse, I live alone in an apartment now, five clocks have to be corrected weekly.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Allergic reaction to Penicillin. I saw my friend Brydon who died five years before.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   An understanding to the universe and its structure, why things are the way they are and an understanding of time, heightened sight and hearing, saw colors I've never seen before.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Full duration.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It seemed very quick, but clear and detailed so it had to have had a duration.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was much sharper and again colors I have not seen before even to this day.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything seemed clear and the perfect volume, it was almost as if there were no sounds it was all being fed into my mind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A light at the end with a orange glow.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was with my old friend Brydon who died five years before, he told me it was not my time and I was sent back.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright and white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     yes the white room with the white light, and i was well saw the entier universe in one eyes view.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, happiness, and excitement.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I can now feel when a phone call is come through. I also have good feelings and that day will be good and bad feeling on bad days.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I have never been one to believe in God, heaven or hell. My experience offered me more clarity on the subject that there is no God, no heaven or hell. No wrong or right religion, only that we are one small part of a whole that must co-exist in order for the whole to remain as one.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I have never been one to believe in God, heaven or hell. My experience offered me more clarity on the subject that there is no God, no heaven or hell. No wrong or right religion, only that we are one small part of a whole that must co-exist in order for the whole to remain as one.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I gained a sense of universal order, how it's made up and its structure, why things are the way they are, and the understanding of time. However, I seemed to have lost my understanding of time quickly after the experience, almost instantly.  I also gained a sense of feeling all in the universe as if I could feel all the 'souls' in it. Believe me; life does exist on other worlds.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The Knowledge gained during the experience, such as the make-up of the universe and how it's all interconnected as one.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Time does not seem to keep track around me anymore.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience with my parents shortly after being in the hospital and also told my best friend Jesse about a year ago. Other than that, I wrote a lot in my little book I have. Until now I have not shared it with others but it was the experience of Kelly K's story that made me share it with you, I would like to speak with her.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very clear in my mind, easy to recall.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Very clear still easy to recall.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dan_nde.html