{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1dahlia_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Dahlia Y NDEs 6175","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dahlia Y NDEs 6175  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dahlia Y NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			2939 Dahlia Y NDEs 6175  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My sister and I got in to a fight because she didn't want me to go with her to her friend's house. I jumped on my bike and was going to chase them when my mom stopped us all and made us put on our helmets and adjusted them. When we got to her friend's house, they went inside to get popsicles and I stayed in the cul-de-sac to ride my bike. I was going around the circle and looping around at the road to make a figure eight. My back tire was struck, my bike flipped in front of the SUV, I was stuck between the grill and my bike, my boot was torn off then she slammed on the brakes. I flew through the air and hit the ground landing on my back, my helmet broke in to four pieces and I stopped breathing. The neighbor boy was the first to come out and see me. He ran to get my sister and help. 

I was above everything, just looking around, with the trees that were swaying in the wind and the birds were chirping. As the sirens started to get closer I tuned down their sound, I didn't want to hear the stressful sounds but kept the soothing sounds. I wanted to check on my dog Walker, who was buried in our yard, so I flew to our house. I couldn't see him but I could feel him and I wanted to know he was okay. I flew over the roof to the front of the house and saw my best friend and her brothers on their bikes they were going to where my body was so I went to the lake. I could hear everything, fish jumping, ducks swimming and quacking, but I could still hear the sirens and they made me anxious and worried. I was sucked back into my body and it was loads of pain. I don't remember anything after feeling the pain.

A couple of days later at the hospital while I was still in ICU, I stopped breathing again. They had taken out the intubation tube, the medics on the helicopter had used an adult size tube because it was all they had, but it was too big for my throat and caused a lot of swelling. I was looking at my body lying in the bed and my dad sitting in a chair next to me holding my hand. I saw a purple swirly, like grape and vanilla ice cream swirled together but it was moving, surrounded by blackness and stars in front of me. Behind me was a black hole. I was in between, being pulled to the purple swirl. I was naked and squirming; fighting. I knew if I went in to the swirl I would not come back to my body in the bed. A voice said, 'you are not ready, I am going to help you heal.' It was not a man or a woman. It said other things that I do not remember now. I was pulled in to the black hole, I was in my body I opened my eyes and said, 'okay, okay.' Then the alarm went off on the machine. I stopped breathing again and a whole team from the respiratory unit came in. I went blank until I woke up the next day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 13, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was hit by an SUV while riding my bike. My left arm was broken, my ribs were cracked, my brain was swelling and my lungs collapsed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My best friend and her brothers on their bikes going to see the accident scene. My dad sitting next to me holding my hand when I was talking to the being between the purple swirl and the black hole.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of everything around me instead of just what I wanted as a 6 year old.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I said, 'okay, okay' was the only time I knew what was going on.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything was all at once and separated.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things were brighter, happier, and clean.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More vivid and crisp and from far distances.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The black hole.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The purple swirl in blackness and stars.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Space.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, sad, relieved, anxious, peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The purple swirl.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was little and would sleep during mass, church was not important to me.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I went to RSE after my experience and it has helped me understand some of the things that I saw

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I am a student at Ramtha's School of Enlightenment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was six years old and life was pretty simple and my experience was not likemy own thoughts, it was like a dream

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I did not believe in an afterlife and now I do.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice said I was not ready and would help me heal. It said other things that I can't remember.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I am not sure if the voice I heard was "God" or a being that was there to help guide me

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Life did not feel over, I felt more "alive" than when I was in my body

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That once you loose what you love your awareness is heightened of that love and you come back with a stronger love. Love is everything

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am more careful and if someone is taking a risk I will help them.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My relationship with my sister has become stronger, we are best friends. My mom, I don't take her for granted and I listen to her more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did my best to describe space.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It was a different and exciting experience, every other day had a routine and I don't remember otherwise.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see orbs in the sky.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I chose to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom, dad & sister right away when I could talk. They were interested but I don't know if they were influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My grandpa had told me about dying in a car accident and coming back too.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that it happened

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Today I know the difference between dreams and reality even better.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dahlia_y_nde.html