{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1daisy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Daisy M NDE 734","mylang":"de"}
          	        Daisy M NDE 734  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Daisy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						266  Daisy M NDE  734  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had gone into the hospital to have my tubes tied.  My husband later told me that he almost came back to keep me from having the surgery.  The surgeon inserted a needle into my abdomen to insert gas to swell the stomach in preparation for the surgery.  Missing, he sent an air bubble to my heart causing me to be clinically dead for four minutes.  The surgeon immediately called my husband telling him there was a complication and he should get to the hospital as quickly as possible.  My husband couldn't even describe his reaction to seeing me in bed thrashing and the nurses were in the process of restraining my arms (I had already pulled a tube out of my mouth breaking a capped tooth).  Upon hearing his voice and (I assume) feeling his caress, I immediately relaxed.


I was in a coma for almost two days. My feeling now is that my NDE happened before my husband came and if he had not come, I might not be here today.  I remember floating above watching paddles being used on my chest, and watching the doctors reading the electrocardiograph machine from above.  I remember nurses doing 'things' to me but I also saw the tunnel with the light.  Who should appear from it, but my brother and sister whom I loved dearly and had lost in 1970.  They were so happy to see me, and I them.  I had been dreaming about them constantly for years (my sister had been killed in a car and train wreck and my brother died of cancer six months later and I missed them terribly).  We hugged and were holding hands.  They were begging me to come with them.


I started to go with them and then something stopped me (my husband?) and I told them I couldn't go because I had a baby (one year old), a son (nine years old) and my husband and I wasn't ready to leave them.  They were sad but said of course I had to stay but they wouldn't be able to come to me anymore.  I have never had a dream about them since but I do believe my brother is 'living' with us as I see his image from time to time.  I get goose bumps and teary every time I recall this incident but also treasure it because I know they are together.  I lost my father in 1999 and my mother in 2001.  I never dream about my father (?) but often about my mother and she tells me that my brother and sister are now with her.  This gives me great warmth.


Before my mother passed though, maybe five years ago on our wedding anniversary, my husband and I were at odds but in the kitchen together preparing our celebration dinner.  He was at the sink with his back to me and with me faced the other direction (at the stove) when, at the same time (we found out later), we both felt someone tap us on the shoulder - and it was a definite tap with pressure.  I turned to see if he was behind me but he was at the sink (he didn't react because he knew if he turned around I would be there and he wasn't talking to me!!!  I feel that was either my sister or brother telling us to straighten up!  About a year after that, I was sitting at the computer and my husband was behind me.  I felt another tap and turned to see what he was doing - he was nowhere in sight but almost immediately after (maybe one minute) he called from the bathroom asking me why I was coming into the bedroom when I was supposed to be looking something up on the computer.  He STILL isn't a believer. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1/1981

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death I had gone into cardiac arrest from a surgeon sending an air bubble to my heart.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  This is explained above.  I was above my body watching things being done to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I still vividly remember it

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Altered space - the 'tunnel'.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I didn't go all of the way through but went into it - there were definite 'walls'.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Described above.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A bright sunlight - very warm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Described above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     If it's not a life or death situation, it's just not worth getting angry or upset.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Because it was so real and I realized later it was my husband caressing me that actually 'brought' me and my thoughts back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part - seeing my sister and brother.  Worst - not getting to 'see' (dream about them) anymore.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some told me of their feelings and were glad they had found someone they could talk to without feeling weird.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1daisy_m_nde.html