{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1damaska_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Damaska C NDE 21944","mylang":"de"}
          	        Damaska C NDE 21944  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Damaska C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1823 Damaska C NDE 21944  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a beautiful August, day and we had been fasting and praying. I had already gone without food. Just on water and prayer. I knew that it was a very intense, spiritual activity. Both my sister and I are spiritual people. She, being a seasoned missionary, and I a young practicing student in pursuit of Jesus my Lord.

I remember that moment where I had the sensation of the veins stretching and bursting. I felt the blood fill me head. There was instant silence and numbness, and then everything stopped. I can describe it as content. 

Instantly, I was outside my body, surrounded by a landscape of natural beauty. I seemed to be flying without the aid of anything or anyone. I was aware of my state. I was surely going somewhere, but I did not know where. I was passing over hills and valleys. There were all of these green trees and shrubs. The total beauty took me up, but I knew that was not what this was all about. Then, I suddenly saw right into my room.

There, on her knees, my sister was praying to GOD on my behalf. I heard her prayer.

‘Lord, you call her to be your prophet, your messenger. She can’t go like this. Bring her back.’

I heard a voice say, ‘it isn’t your time, go back.’ With those words, I arrived back in my room. On the bed lay my body, and in the ceiling was my spirit. There I was able to hear everything clearly. I was engulfed by his love. I was torn between these two worlds. I mediated for my sister, I spoke to her, but she could not hear. I told her that I was very happy where I was and that I did not want to return.

She continued in urgent desperation for me to come back. She was not aware that I was already in the room. She had interrupted my journey with her crying to GOD. It was like there was a bargaining to go back into my body. It was not instant. I hung out there on the ceiling for what seemed to be eternity, listening to the conversation. Then I was just pushed into my body. I felt a force of reality, a sudden movement, and I opened my eyes.

My sister went out of the room and came back with a cup of something. She commanded me to drink it. I did this without saying anything and then slipped into what I was told was four days of coma.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/14/11997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    High spiritual activity  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Perfectly well  I was in fasting/prayer.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    It was almost the same, except that I was outside of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       One hundred percent. No one that is alive can do all those things together.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My body was on the bed, and my spirit flying. The time was about afternoon. It was clear, like a summer afternoon.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Rivers and flowing water.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The Bible promises us a peaceful environment, a place of beauty and nature, where we shall all one day dwell in harmony. But we must cross over.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The presence of someone that I didn't see, but whose voice I heard.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a beautiful color. There was picturesque scenery.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was switching from one action to another, with an inner knowledge as to what to do next. I was seeing what I had to do. I felt my sister’s hurt and desperation. I was concerned and wanted to encourage her. I wanted to remain in this state of peace and love. I wasn’t experiencing any of the pain or trauma. I knew that I was over my body. I did not miss my body when I was only this journey. I had no emotions.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Enthusiasm, eagerness, love, peace and calm.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was airborne. Without the physical body, the spirit of man is without boundaries, and they do not need permission to leave or come. I knew my sister interceded for me. I have better consciousness and awareness. My sight is better.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was aware of higher knowledge. I was aware of personal and biblical prophecies.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came back into the room. I obeyed a voice that told me I should go back. I did not think it was a good idea to go back. I believe that my sister, who was praying for me, saw that her plea for me to live was answered.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have greater faith in GOD’s words. A greater passion to serve GOD. My doubts were removed. I am not fearful any more. I believe in the supernatural. I am unattached to material things. I always travel light.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have clearer vision. I have visitations from angels and encounters with Jesus in dreams and visions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am alive, and that is a miracle. I did not have surgery. I was healed during this experience, from what the doctors considered a stroke or hemorrhage of the brain. The worst part was that I did not want to return to my body. I must have hated my body all along and not known it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have had positive reactions from people I told. It was an affirmation of my purpose and destiny. Some of them were deeply affected by my experience, but they never told me how.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to meet some other experiencers. Receive some email, and some contact.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1damaska_c_nde.html