{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nury_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nury M Probable NDE 6455","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nury M Probable NDE 6455  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nury M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3169 Nury M Probable NDE 6455  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 1995 August 6 my life changed. In all of Colombia, the electricity was off and we had a heavy rain, with fog plus the appearance of two spaceships in the sky.  I was a witness with my friend. My mind became one with them, and my entire being was emptied and filled with light and power. They left and in the newspaper EL TIEMPO (THE TIME) the picture of the two spaceships visiting the world: entering from Argentina crossing Colombia, Miami and New York (in all countries there was same effect).  After that I divorced my first spouse and started to wonder about the visits I had of saints and beings of light during my sleep doing things in my body taking out dust.  I was filled with light in my ears and heart happiness. I came back told to my mother I saw my grandparents' death and I slept again and continued to be there with them. During the fevers, for three days my mind was like in parallel worlds: I could be here and talk to others and at the same time my mind was like seeing my own mind in different times or lives, all passed so fast.  Passing tunnels of darkness and tunnels of light and finally at the end of the tunnel of light to arrive to a place full of light where I recognized was my great grandparents and grandparents and others persons darling to me that had passed away. They were holding me with so much love and welcomed me to that place. I was full of peace and happiness. I came back to tell my mother I saw my grandparents' deaths.  I slept again and continued to be there with them.  I came back to tell my mother I saw my grandparents' deaths. I slept again and continued to be there with them. My mother became very fearful and called a doctor to come to my home. When he came, I was dying, feeling such peace and happiness. He did not feel a pulse in me but my mind was with the heaven. He rushed me to the hospital, where they admitted me for 5 days administering antibiotics and serum.

Afterwards, I only know that I was recovered but I was not 'Nury' anymore.  I could even listen to Nury from afar trying to come into my body but in me was another light, another consciousness, a very powerful being that cut off all of my previous life. It took me out of Colombia and took me to India and then Thailand. After the death experience, I was not attached to anything in Colombia. I divorced, sold my house, gave my properties to relatives and poor people and made two bags with little things for me and my daughter of 8 years.  Then in alpha dreams, God brought my mind to Him in a place like a sun, but inside was empty and full of bliss. He told me many things that I listened to, but I did not have a clear understanding but it moved me out my life and my work to leave Colombia and settle in India. God did a lot of work in me especially before they took Nury out of me. In May 25 1996 a man came to me, I never saw him before during my alpha dream. He called me and told me, 'wake up, start the cleaning.'  I told him, 'it was too early, only 3 am let me sleep more'. He pulled me up by my hair and made me sit to pray, in alpha he was a person familiar to me but when I woke up I wondered who he was, I never saw him. 

The same morning in the hospital where I worked, somebody saw him walking at my side. They asked me 'who is the man at your side?' I told them I came alone, but I saw him too, in my alpha but they saw him in reality. That happened in India where many people saw him, but in India, I could not recognize him. Only when I came to Thailand to I recognize him as the King of Thailand. I left Colombia and came to meet Parthasarathi Rajagopalachari in Chennai India the president of Sri Rama Chandra mission they have a research center in raja yoga , I was preceptor for  3 years and gave initiations to many Indians in that yoga experience. I felt Jesus was always with me and wanted me to find him in the Vedas, yoga and Buddha since he walked that land and mixed with all of them. Later I wished to be a nun, so I left Chennai and traveled all of India from temple to temple now with the Ramakrishna's mission where Swamiji Ranganathananda, the president, welcomed me to travel in his temples in each city all over India. I was only in temples with monks, and 3 days in each place from Kanyakumari Calcula to Himalaya, Nepal to Cochin, Ladakh. My life was vegetarian and celibacy at that time; living fully in the spiritual world with a lot of experiences but with the help of the Christian saints giving me light. The space ships were there too, filling every temple where I was sleeping like we were working together in the mission to bring the Lord Jesus to India's consciousness. 

After 5 years in India, I met a doctor in philosophy who was a Buddhist monk from Thailand.  We fell in love, married and had two kids. He brought me to Thailand.  Only in Thailand did I recognize the man travelling with me from Colombia, all through India and now here in Thailand: it was the King. I tried to reach him to ask him why he called me, why did he bring me here by many ways. When I was working in Mahachulalongkorn University in Wat Mahathat [Editor's Note: It is the common short name of several important Buddhist temples in Thailand.] Suddenly the king came to the hospital Siri raj. At the university where I worked so I started to go there to pray for him and to read the Catholic bible I had gotten. I met many of his advisers, all were so kind to me and I was trying to figure out what soul God had put into my body??? I discovered I worked in Wat Mahathat, where the mother of the king practiced meditation. 

I am living in Nonthabuti the home town of the mother of the king, I've got three kids like the mother of the king, and I work in Siri raj the place she founded. Yet still I am not sure if that soul like Buddha inside me is her?  I also discovered that the king had a Catholic nun care for him when he was a 2-year-old boy. I wondered if perhaps the soul of her needed me at the feet of the king reading the bible to him in Siri raj when he was 2 years old: was it God's will to keep us close? The work in Thailand is very hard especially the terrible experience of the dark side of the world and underworld that God opened my eyes to see and hear. I could experience in India Shiva, Kali (like the city where I studied), Krishna and in Thailand Buddha his heaven and many Chinese Bodhisattva and yet not one of them could help me to close my eye to the underworld: only my Lord Jesus could do it. During my stay in the hospital, praying for the King, God said to me, 'don't go away, the king will come down now and you will see him' and yet anything could happen and I left hospital and the king came down and we could not meet each other. Exactly 16 years after he came to me in Cali, Colombia on May 25 2012 I met his majesty. Two days before my blood had come down to 8.4 hemoglobin: exactly like the age of the king 84 years. I did not know I would see him that day in May. Jesus came in a white dress to heal me and told me 'now you will meet the king, I will be with you'. Like He said, I met the king after 16 years and all the years of him visiting me in my dreams and calling me with his spirit to pray for his country. The experience was incredible and painful, too, since my body became one with his.  With his sickness, the Lord will take it from both of us as His cross. 

I listened to Nury far from here; He came to return me to Nury, since I now need this soul in me to reach the king for God's grace. In Thailand in the earth, the Chinese masters are walking and one of them wished to enter my body: it was full of light and love but would take me out of Thailand to China. I prayed to God to not let that soul in my body but to finish my work in Thailand. I could feel that the soul was a great, nice, lovely and one with God. I loved the mood to be allowing it in but I prayed to God: 'protect me, Lord'. God let me know even the Buddha in heaven I listen them singing song happy I am here and yet I concentrate myself only in Jesus since he is the real only savior as mentioned even by Buddha.  My hemoglobin would not come up with vitamins or food so I decided to do a fasting while reading the book of Doctor John W.  Armstrong: 'The Water of Life!'  At the same moment, I came to my balcony and I saw a rare light opening in the heaven in my real awakened state the heaven open to see clearly the light was Jesus on the cross full of light. My mind became so still and I felt I was completely healed. Then I ran to take photos of the image in the sky, when I returned the clouds covered the cross with Jesus but the heaven opened again to present four huge spaceships turning, full of light and so fast in the sky. I did a fasting of 20 days, not food only water and urine as I did on other occasions and I was healed when God said to me. 'Take out of your house any image of Buddha or gods in your house. Even Buddha never wished people to worship images'. I took them out and I was healed! I believe the heaven opened for me, several times, in Thailand to see the space ships; or a cloud following me everywhere I went to shadow me, as if the sun or a fresh breeze specially filling the places where I worked with God. In my craving for God, I had asked Him, 'I am tired of seeing this cloud following me please show me your face.' Out of the clouds came seven lights like spaceships emitting light all around. I believe they were the seven spirits of God mentioned in revelations. The King accompanied me every day in my mind: I could feel his mind and experience my unity with Him and how God loves him. In one of his communications with me in alpha dream, the king told me, 'Nury we were witness of God from Egypt to the Promised Land. We saw all the power God showed Moses.' Then after that, a high priest in Jerusalem told me: 'I WAS A WITNESS OF SINAI, I saw and listened to God'. So the priest told me what the king told me too in alpha dream, or in meditation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  feb 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I got a swelling in my right kidney with a high fever. I only knew it when I was in hospital, since I was treating the fever alone with natural herbs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The blessedness you taste in heaven is never compared to anything in the earth. Blessedness is like an expansion of your consciousness. You are not body, nor mind just light or even not light but consciousness of nothing more than God.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From my point of view the real highest level of consciousness is when you forget yourself to be one with God; just when I was in the blessedness and peace of God and reunited with my dearest ancestors.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The returning into the tunnels and previous existence was faster; difficult to catch but the entering into heaven was eternal vividness.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Parallel world, subtle and faster and lighter

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The listening of the universe, the divine light is like something you will keep forever in your heart.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnels of darkness and light but nothing could stop me in my trip towards God and my ancestors in heaven.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In THIS EXPERIENCE, I only observed in the light and bless of being loved and returning to heaven and only my ancestors. In another occasion, clearly I saw Jesus, Buddha and Mohamed too. But no one has power in the earth now: only JESUS.I also saw my Grandparents.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   From afar like a sun but when you reach it its nothing: empty and void but still your mind.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     After the tunnel of light, the place was full of light and blest, you cannot compare with the happiness any earthly event can give you. You are free from the limitations of body, time and space.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Blessed, happiness, peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt the blessedness to be in heaven, but slowly I understand that God loves the earth more than any other place in the universe, and that God loves men more than any other angel or spirit in heaven. God can walk in the earth when men and women are in pure love. God needs the earth to be cleaned up; needs the men to remember Him, to follow Him the way He shows in our bible, the law he gave to Moses and the grace He offers to us through Jesus. We, as his people, have no need to exert ourselves to be Buddha or years of meditation to be a saint by the grace of God. He can put in any man or woman a Buddha without effort just by his grace. He put in my body a Buddha, just for me to walk this land and to tell people how God can be easy for us when we recognize Him and His son Jesus.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     There will be a departure of some beings, different saints or Buddha's and they will be in the heaven of Jesus. The world will be cleared of most of the corruption against God and the people that will stay will suffer so much for a period. At the end we will return with Jesus and all his towns will be blessed because the center of the universe is the earth God created: it is the center and men are to be divine.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     Many times I can see visions of things that will happen and it does happen or listen to things that will happen and does happen. When I slept my mind went to Colombia and accompanied any one of my friends or relatives in distressed moments. Then I return to my body and know this person has cancer and if God lets me be witness, God will heal too.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   Nury is now there in heaven with God and the relatives she missed are now in me to return another power-soul connected to Thailand for the grace of God's plan here in this country in his infinite love.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   my father and aunt where medioms of a catholic saint Joshep Gregory Hernandez then i saw many spiritual things with them of healing to people during sleep. at my 25 a Doctor told me i got not tonsils so to remember the saint did surgery for me during my sleep and was truth i got not tonsils. I started to study rudolsf steiner, Raja Yoga with SRCM  and Buddha but in my dreams or in alpha God brought me to many conditions without my effort.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Return more to God and the bible.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I am a christian and God wished me to come to India and to thailand to discover the truth they dont tell to others and is that jesus was predicted to in theirs books and was exactly described as he came and die for us. Buddha told only the buddha carring the Yoke can save us and describe him as : carring a Yoke, full of scars in his forehead, holes in hands and feet and a wound blooding in the right side of the body. And yet here in thailand or india nobody do a image of that buddha with the description of jesus for the world to know is jesus.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i confirmed  what was only a believe

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     We have to do what God said to the prophets, it is good for us in his eyes so that when we die we can have that paradise.  I confirmed what only a belief was.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   THE LORD CALLING MY NAME IN A MALE VOICE

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   iN THIS EXPERIENCE i only abosrved in the light and bless of be loved and returning to heaven  and only my ancestors but in another ocassion clearly i saw jesus, buddha and mohamed too. but no one got power in the earth now oNLY JESUS.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     i saw my self in previous existence millions

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We travell back to home as a light to be one with the Light. is a second in your mind to be one with God and the light experince makes the travell so mistical full of bless since you are lighter.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     TAHT BLESS INMEDIATELY YOU RECOGNIZE IS GOD YOUR OWN ESSENCE

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was leaving my body as a light and travelling to return to the divine light and there were my relatives: dead ones.  THAT WHEN BLESSED IMMEDIATELY YOU RECOGNIZE GOD: YOUR OWN ESSENCE. I saw myself in previous existence millions of years ago.  We travel back to home as a light to be one with the Light. In a second, in your mind, to be one with God, the light experience makes the travel so mystical and full of blessedness, since we are lighter. God knows that idolatry brings to man death and he knows that India and Thailand are destined to be under waters even though he loves them and wants them to return to him. As well, Buddha and God know that the water floods are related to sexual conduct: specifically homosexuality and there is not one giving consciousness to the world why God gave a death sentence to homosexuality and adultery; so when the judges and parents don't take action of this law in old testament we are in fear that a big planet or comet or huge stone will hit all the planet and destroy all. Because we protect the ones God sentenced to death, then the entire planet will be sentenced. Even so: God loves the planet. God is love and the heaven is full of eternal love. As we remember God, the planet earth will be like heaven. When men and women meet and belong to each other and allow themselves to be surrendered to God and love each other in God terms then will God take out their souls and put God Himself in both of them and then walks on earth! Then the earth is that paradise! We are not alone; there are many other worlds and dimensions. There are hells too and hell beings know God exists and the shadow exist too. No power of the Krishna or Rama or Buddha worlds in this time, only Jesus, since Jesus is alive, living side-by-side in the earth and God gave it to Him for this time, the power to save us to have victory over the enemies of mind and to get heaven. I had experience of the Hindus gods and Buddha's and Chinese power all them are part of God and like angels they are not real gods and yet God said to me (still I had not experienced Him in His full), I asked him to talk to me. I had listened to His kind voice in my ears; His voice that stays in my heart forever telling to me to forget my personal interest and just to surrender to Him. There is no time for anything else in this moment in my life than to pray. There is no other business I can do more in life than pray, pray is my work, pray is my hobby, pray is my entertainment, and pray is my company. God doesn't like idolatry. Images of any of the spirits of God only bring evil to the world. God wishes each of us to experience Him in the purest of heart as the most subtle and lighter experience in our lives! Buddha said it is hard for all of you to give up the old ways, and now in western countries we have Jesus but want to return to old ways. It is ok if we can find that Jesus was predicted by Buddha and by Krishna. The Hare Krishna recorded that Jesus walked India and was the greatest Krishna.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     God loves for earth and men. How he blow into us his own breath and how many people follow the breath to be peaceful and never recognize the giver of that breath. HGow God placed a law for us to live saved in the earth and we human are creating organizati

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     i was leaving my body as a light and travelling in returning to the divine light and there where my relatives death ones

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Of we remember God the planet earth will be like heaven. when men and woman meet and belong to each other and allow to be surrender to God and love each other in God terms then God take out their soul and Put God himself in both of them and walks on earth! then the earth is that paradise!

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     God knows that idolatry bring to man death and he knows than india and thailand are destined to be under waters even so he loves them and want them to return to him. As well buddha and God know that the waterflood are related to missexual conduct specific

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God is love and the heaven is full of eternal love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I know now what God's wish for us is and I only fear HIM.  I pray to Him not to bring me astray from Him or into temptation; and to help me to win all the battles of life, to be loyal to Him. I gave up idolatry since my hemoglobin being down was connected to having some photos of others gods or angels in my house. He healed me to let me know idolatry kills us. It is not a joke.   Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Nobody on earth understands me: only God. It is hard to find friends even.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   After that experience i got more powerfulls even in awake state but not before it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think I have them since before, without knowing but now I trust my listening and visions more than before. I trust what God shows me in my dreams what he wishes or he just opens the heaven and lets me know His support! I am not walking alone in this land far from Colombia.  He is at my side and his son Jesus. Buddha could not protect me from this underworld in Thailand: only Jesus.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Especially meaningful: Isr'l, Jesus and to discover that Siddhartha Gautama was an exiled tribe of Isr'l in India. Not as the Sri Lanka did in their teaching of Buddha rejecting God's existence.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In India I walked the land without talking of Jesus but they could dream of Jesus in their contact with me. I can contact people in silent or God does it without too much effort of me intellectually or preaching. Just by being only the Lord ENTERS INTO THE LIFE OF PEOPLE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Perhaps I believe very subtly every night when we sleep we return if we connect deeply with God. I saw many things in my dreams when I was a kid of less than 7 years: I saw in the sky the end of the world and floods. I am very sensitive to spirits! I can feel them when I enter a house they just follow me for no reason. I pray to the Holy Father to bring them to heaven.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That is a reality I will always believe, I am person of faith!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I experienced more times the same death even in awaken each time I forget myself and remembered God's existence. We have to die to remember God: 'die' in the sense to let our ego die then experience the essence of us.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   God himself reproduces the experience when he wants to open heaven to me. I am a being I never use drugs or alcohol; I am very sincere, honest, simple and humble so God accompanies the poorest on earth!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When we let God be in our entire lives and we offer all to him, follow his law and His Son THE EARTH IS THAT PARADISE WE CAN FEEL HERE WHAT WE FELT IN THE DEATH EXPERIENCE OF RETURNING TO GOD! After that experience, I got more powerful even in the awake state but not before it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is very professional, you asked more than enough.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nury_m_probable_nde.html