{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1d_nde.html","mytitle":"D NDE 35","mylang":"de"}
          	        D NDE 35  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						81  D NDE  35  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 In March of 1978, I found myself lying on a bed.  This was strange because 2 seconds before -- I seemed to have been lying in a pool of blood with massive injuries to my physical body.  I arose from the bed and stared at my left hand. It was now re-attached to my wrist.  A few seconds ago, the hand had been missing among the rubble of my wrecked car.  As I struggled to remember what had just happened -- it seemed as if everything was disappearing.  I had an understanding of events that had just transpired -- but the details were leaving my conscious mind.  I struggled to hold on to the memory as it evaporated from my sight.  I was left with only a memory of lying in a pool of blood with my left hand separated from my wrist and the lower section of my body lying in what used to be the back section of the car I had been traveling in.


I was in shock.  How could I travel though time and space in a matter of a few seconds.  It had been 10 PM when I crashed the car.  It was now 10 AM as I sit up in the bed looking at my left wrist and my two legs.  I wanted to know by who and how the damaged had been repaired.  It was not a dream but yet I was lying in a bed as if I had been asleep.  My mind was as connected to the 10 AM and the 10 PM as if nothing had happened between the 12 hours.  I knew differently.


I got up and ran toward the living room of the house.  I asked my Mom what had just happened to me.  She was as confused by my statements as I was confused by the missing time.  She insisted that I had a dream.  I told her that I knew the difference between looking at my hand in a dream and looking at my hand while I was awake.


I said,


"As I look at my hand now -- I have a memory of a few seconds ago when it was nothing more than a bloody stump.  It was too real and the image in my mind is too real and vivid to be a dream. It was real. My whole body was split in half. My legs where gone. I was desperately trying to hold my insides in with my stump of an arm while I reached for my legs with my good right hand.  The right hand was still on.  It was real.  How did anyone ever fix something like that?  How did you all find me?  I was 5 miles outside of town in the middle of nowhere.  How did an ambulance find me?  I was sitting in the middle of a cotton field.  I don't see how they found me and fixed me up like nothing happened."


My Mom kept insisting that nothing did happen. I then remembered seeing my car. I'd only had the car for a few months.  It was my pride and joy.  I ran to the front door and found it sitting in the drive way shining like it had just rolled off the showroom floor. (It was 3 years old.)  My Mom remarked how clean it looked.  It didn't shine.  It sparkled as if stardust had been mixed in with the wax. I ran to the car and looked all over for signs that it had been sitting in a cotton field after crashing at 125 M.P.H.  There was not a scratch, spot, or speck of dirt to be found anywhere.  I opened the hood and even the engine sparkled.  There wasn't a spot of oil or grime anywhere.  I told my Mom, “THIS IS NOT MY CAR!  I know my car and this is not the one I was driving yesterday."


I spent an hour talking to my Mom.  I finally came to the conclusion that I had been in a major accident. I thought the month was October.  She told me it was March.  I concluded that I had been in a major accident in October and had laid in a coma somewhere while they fixed my body and my car.  They didn't want to face the bad feelings of the injuries and decided to make as if nothing had happened:  To go forward and get on and not look back at the bad of the past.  That was the only thing my mind could make sense of.


I tried and tried to talk to friends and family about my so called coma.  Everyone denied that I had been in an accident or a coma.  They knew what they knew and I knew what I knew.  They were hiding something.  I always got the impression of some sort of quilt.  It turns out that a friend of mine had committed suicide on the very road I said I had crashed on.  I had no memory of any friend.  They mentioned his name and it drew a blank.  I asked and they duck the issue.  They wanted to forget something and they wanted me to leave the questions alone.  Everyone was glad that I couldn't remember the last 5 months.  This only added fuel to the fire of my suspicion that they were not being truthful with me.


I took a family member and several friends out to the road.  There was an imprint in the ditch of a car grill.  There was massive destruction of the cotton field but no metal of the wreckage.  Someone told me that I was going through a lot of trouble to pull a hoax.


Some more memories poured into my mind over the weeks.  I had crashed the car and when it came to a stop... I had been cut up badly by the windshield and flying glass.  I screamed out for "God" to help me.  Then I stood outside of my car.  I felt naked because I didn't have clothes on anymore.  My first thought was that I had been thrown from the car and had imagined the bloody scene in the car.  I then thought how was I going to get home and explain how come I was naked?  I looked at my car and it was totaled.  There was steam coming from the front of the car.  I could not tell it was the hood because of the condition of the steel.  It was so mangled and torn it didn't even look like a car. It looked like a small ball. I saw a tire come flying from the sky and hit the ground and roll away.  Then the thought hit me that my dead body was inside the car.  Something told me to go and look and I declined.  I had already seen what it looked like and I didn't want to see it again.  That is when I realized I had died.  I was no longer in the physical body.  Just then, I heard a noise.  It sounded like wild animals growling and laughing.  They sounded like laughing hyenas.  I could see them in the distance running toward me.  I cried out to "God" for help.  I started floating toward the sky or upwards.


It was then that I remembered I had a goal.  I was looking for a friend who was stuck on the other side of death's door. He had not been able to make it to "God."  I was there to get him and take him to "God" and beg for forgiveness on his behalf. I told this force that was lifting me upwards to let go and let me get at those nasty creatures.  I was going to kick every one of them in the butt to get to my friend.  I had to get my friend before I could go to "God" and knock on heaven's door.  Something told me to let go and stop struggling.  I said, "I am not going anywhere without my friend."  A voice said, "Your friend is with you as you speak.  Turn and see for yourself."  I turned and I was carrying my friend on my back.  I shouted out a victory cry and zoomed upwards.


I traveled at a 45 degree angle until I reached a light.  It was like a laser show that I could hear, feel, see, touch, smell, and taste.  It was marvelous. When I reached a level ... I zoomed forward and merged into a light.


That is all I could remember in 1978.  I told everyone I could that I had taken a rocket ride to heaven.  People asked who my friend was and I told them I didn't know.  I only referred to him as my friend.  When I turned to look behind me -- all I could see was his back.  His back was to my back.  I couldn't see his face and only heard his voice.  I had no idea who it was.


For months -- I talked about this experience.  People said that whatever it was -- it had changed my personality.  They said I was a different person in the same body.  They still never told me about this friend of mine who died. I had no idea why he took his life.  He was a total mystery to me.  No one ever believed me when I told them I had been in a major car wreck, died and then somehow came back to life.  UNTIL...


1988.  I was in a slight mishap that sent me to the hospital in an ambulance. I awoke again with 12 hours missing from my life.  I had no idea how, or why I was in the hospital.  The doctor came in and told me that I had fallen on an old injury.  He wanted to talk about that old injury.  He told me that he had found evidence of the most remarkable surgery he had ever seen.  He told me that it looked like I had been mutilated inside and then put back together somehow.  He said that the surgical scars defied anything he had ever witnessed before.  I asked him if it looked like damage that might have been done after rolling around in a car at 125 M.P.H. -- He told me that is exactly what he seemed to be looking at.  I told him that I had always known that it happened but people tried to convince me that it didn't.  The doctor wanted me to find the doctor who had done the surgery to repair the damage he saw evidence of.  I told him it would do no good.  I had already called every hospital in my old home-town looking for information and no one had any.  It was like it never happened. I told the doctor that he was the first person in my life who ever believed me.  He told me to allow him to show my files to the world and everyone in the world would believe me.


I told him that I would pray about it and see what my dreams told me to do.  I came back and told him that I couldn't show them until 1999.  I had to wait for a promise to come true first.  The doctor was disappointed, but I told him I had to follow after my own heart and remain true to my visions and dreams.


A few months ago -- I remember both those 12 hour periods in 1978 and 1988.  I had a NDE experience during the 1988 incident also.  The paramedic who revived me later told me that I had been without vital signs for 26 minutes.  He told me that the only reason he put the oxygen mask on me was because I had talked to him while I was outside the body.  I could remember this in 1988 the next day when he asked me about it.  I can remember it now.  I was outside trying to get back in.


I also believe in reincarnation now.  The promise I was given during both those NDEs was that my friend would be returned  to life again.  He was re-born in a new body.  I have been waiting 21 years for him to grow up.  I am supposed to extend my hand in friendship again.  The bond that existed between us cannot be broken by life, death, time, space, or matter.  It was a bond within our hearts.


There is so much to my story and I am working on writing down all the details. I was told to do this during the out of body travel to the light during both my NDEs.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    March 5, 1978

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Car wreck which was not an accident, but I would not consider it a suicide attempt.  I giving my life back to the one who had given it to me.  Clinical death   ????

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   In the 1988 NDE -- there was a veil that gave the appearance of water. When I stepped though it-- I traveled through a dimension that had a different vibration level. The understanding, and intelligence was of a different form.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Tones of harmony unlike any music heard before or sense

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I merged into the light

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Two celestial beings during the 1978 NDE.  One was a female and the other a male.  There were like old friends that I recognized outside of my body.  I had an awareness of many travels and adventures together in a spiritual sense.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Laser like

The experience included:      A landscape or city

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I asked for popcorn during this event.  You learn how your actions ripple through the lives of others.  You send out waves of anger and hatred and you feel the response as it ripples through the lives of everyone it touches.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Personal events about my future.  I have not recovered the memories of worldly events. I do believe there was information given.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     After the 1988 NDE -- I was very happy.  I had been depressed and suffering from guilt because I didn't feel I was living up to my full potential. I embraced life afterwards with a renewed sense of hope.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The communication beyond the veil of light was without English words. It was a different type of laungage which was hard to express in words.  It was beyond words at times.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The lessons I was able to share with others was the best.  The doubt and disbelief of others was the worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    In 1988, there were many witnesses.  They all told me they had been touched by events.  (They witnessed my body without life and then saw it return.) They all wanted me to write about my experience.  I promised them that I would one day because the "people" in my "dream" (NDE) had told me to.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There is so much more that I am working on writing it all down. It is massive and like trying to get an elephant though the front door of a house.  It is hard to do because it just doesn’t fit.  (Spiritual knowledge into a physical language.)

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</strong>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1d_nde.html