{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nubia_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Nubia Possible NDE 5031","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nubia Possible NDE 5031  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nubia Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2628 Nubia Possible NDE 5031  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Four years ago, in my eighth month of pregnancy, my doctor recommended inducing labor because my baby had reached a weight of ten pounds and if we waited three more weeks the weight could reach eleven pounds or more. I went to the hospital on Saturday, December 9, 2006, in order to induce labor. I felt no pain throughout the rest of the day but my cervix did not dilate so they had to double the amount of medication. On Sunday, December 10th at noon the doctor decided to break my water, this happened without problems. I waited for several hours and dilation of the cervix started between 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm. At 10:00 pm I was in so much pain that they had to give me an epidural. This did not help much; my pain was intense because I had not dilated sufficiently.

At approximately 12:30 am on December 11th my pain was so great that I started screaming and that is when they administered a tranquilizer. I am not sure how long in took, but my pain slowly subsided and when I fell asleep, I saw my body lying on the hospital bed. I also saw myself standing by my side. I felt as if I were sinking into a deep well and when I was about to reach the bottom it was no longer a well but a very long and dark tunnel. I felt an inexplicable calm. I felt no pain but I was scared in that darkness. There was no one around, only me. Suddenly I saw a very brilliant white dot, like a light. I ran to reach it and it started to get larger and more brilliant. When I reached the entrance, everything became illuminated and glowing and I was able to leave there. It was at the same moment that my child was born and I awoke and saw my baby between my legs. My baby was born and my other self, that was standing next to me, had left.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11 de diciembre 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   For approximately eight years I suffer from high blood pressure which is controlled by medication but when I was pregnant I stopped taking the medication because my condition was under control. At the time of the delivery I'm not sure whether it was high or low blood pressure that caused me to have a heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I woke up.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     An increased ability to gaze upon a light more intense than I had ever seen before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a very long and dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the beginning it was just a white dot but as I approached the entrance the light became very intense.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     LO MAS BELLO FUE ALCANZAR LA LUZ

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness when I saw my own inert body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience only with my family. They reacted with sadness because they were with me at the time and thought that it just looked like I was sleeping.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nubia_possible_nde.html