{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__printz___memoirs_of_beloved_mary.pdf","mytitle":"Memoirs Of Beloved Mary","mylang":"de"}
Yïlemoirà oj
C
,'Beloved CfT[ary
^ T f'lo tk e r o j <
^ ,e à u à
(Heretofore Unchronicled)
Presented by
THOMAS PRINTZ
*
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM
P.O. Box 335
Philadelphia 5, Pa.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEDICATION
These personal revelations into the lives, hearts,
and experiences of Those of Us Who helped to
establish the Christian Dispensation, are lovingly
dedicated to all the Children of God who seek
peace, health, happiness, understanding and who
desire to learn THE WAY to return Home.
This book is presented with the hope that some
of these Children of God will take courage from
the realization that a few humble men and women
passed through the same mental, emotional and
physical trials which men face today. To this end
I have opened My Book of Memories and have
written those dear revelations so that all who will
may read.
Looking backward, individuals may gain the
strength builded of Our experiences and, looking
forward, build a future of like perfection for them­
selves and the generations to come.
Lovingly and sincerely,
M o t h e r M a r y
FOREWORD
Every 2,000 years a new spiritual outpouring is
released to bless our Earth and Its evolutions.
Great Beings volunteer to take embodiment in
order to establish the particular magnetic and
radiating center through which that spiritual out­
pouring may enter the souls of men. Even as
light, heat and fecundating power is focused to
the Earth through our physical Sun, so must
there be a focal point through which all blessings
enter the world of men.
Approximately 2,000 years ago, the Christian
Dispensation was destined by God to bless the race.
The beloved Master Jesus was chosen as the Being
Who would descend into physical embodiment
and, with the help of other dedicated individuals,
present the Truth which would be the foundation
of that Era. His Holy Mother (Mary), His blessed
Father (Joseph), His disciples and apostles pledged
themselves to help Him fulfill His destiny. From
the time of His conception until the day of His
Ascension, His spiritual strength was upheld by
loving, consecrated, faithful friends and family.
To complete His service, His Mother and the
disciples formed a spiritual community, bound to-
5
FOREWORD
gether in love for God, for Jesus, for the New Dis­
pensation and for all mankind. Thus, even after
His Ascension, Jesus was enabled to radiate His
blessings and anchor His Rays through the minds
and bodies of His loved ones on Earth, leaving a
strong foundation upon which the Christian Era
has been built and sustained through the ages.
All beginnings are small, from the human embryo
to a planetary System.
This book is written to inspire the people of
today to a like achievement in building a spiritual
foundation wherein health, peace, illumination
and opulence shall be the common heritage of all
God's children.
Beloved Mother Mary has kindly and generously
consented to bare Her heart, hoping that the trials,
the tests of perception, the general experiences of
Her day might inspire some few to a like endeavor
in this day. We thank Her and bless Her for the
energy released to make such a record available
to all. We thank and bless also those whose indi­
vidual and collective energies made it possible to
translate the pure energy of Her Heavenly heart
into words that can be read by every man.
Sincerely,
T h o m a s P r in t z
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PACE
1 Ar c h a n g el G a b r ie i................................................. 9
(On: Childhood of Beloved M ary).
2 Sa in t J o h n , t h e B e l o v e d ................................... 15
(On: Wisdom and strength of Beloved M ary).
3 B eloved M ary .................................................... 19
(On: Her service at Inner Lewis o f forming
Sacred Heart for each incoming lifestream;
“Immaculate Concept"; “Magnifying the
I-ord"; Importance of being a “conductor"
of Master's light and love).
4 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 31
(On: Importance of meditation and contempla­
tion; Importance of gathering momentums
in decrees; More on Mary’s service of
forming “Sacred Heart; Great Initiation
of Jesus; Jesus’ visitation with Mary and
disciples for forty days after Resurrection).
5 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 47
(On: Personal experiences and thoughts on first
Good Friday; Mary's training and ability
to hold “Immaculate Concept”; H er
determination to hold it for each one on
Earth now; Activities of the Sacred Heart
Tem ple at Inner Levels which is H er par­
ticular service to life).
6 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 63
(On: Importance of developing power of con­
centration to hold "Immaculate Concept"
for self and others; Mary's offer to help us
hold "Immaculate Concept" for each
other; Mary’s petition to Karmic Board
for mercy to incoming lifestreams).
7 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 77
(On: More about holding "Immaculate Con­
cept"; Description of "Compound”,
"Sleepers' Realm" and "Earth-bound";
Mary's petition to Karmic Board for as­
sistance to these Realms).
7
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
8 B elo v ed M ary ...................................................... 107
(On: Importance of building'forcefields"through
group activities; Benefits to incoming
children through decrees; More on holding
"Immaculate Concept"; Finding of old
m ill which became first focus of Christian
Dispensation).
9 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 121
(On: Importance and benefits of group activi­
ties; Joy of meeting Jesus on Resurrection
morning; Return of Jesus to Mary, John
and disciples after Resurrection; Establish­
ing of focus of light which became founda­
tion of Christian Era) .
10 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 141
(On: Intercessory prayer; Qualifications for
Healing Temples; First Pentecost celebra­
tion; Opportunity to carry “Cup" to
British Isles with Joseph of Arimathea;
Visiting Luxor; Magnetizing f u t u r e
Shrines).
11 B elo v ed M a ry ....................................................... 161
(On: “Grace”; More on Intercessory prayer;
More on journey carrying “Cup" to British
Isles; Return to Bethany; First community
life of Christian Dispensation; Ascension
of M ary).
12 B elov ed M ary ....................................................... 181
(On: Thought-forms of blessing sent from class;
Thoughts at foot of cross on first Good
Friday; Mary's vow to Jesus to stay and
start Christian Dispensation; Mary’s early
experiences in Tem ple and with Arch­
angels; Memories of meeting and associa­
tion with Joseph; Joseph’s “passing";
Meeting disciples and association with
them; Training with and of Elemental
Kingdom; Importance of making friends
with Elemental (Nature) Kingdom).
■Qxcerptd \rom cJlddredA
by
‘'Beloved c?Crckange[
dahrfel
(June 30, 1954)
(On: Childhood of Beloved Mary.)
J
1
TTA IL, beloved Spirits of Fire! Beloved Chil-
_
Z
"Zdren of the Homeland! Tonight I bring you
love from that Home. I hold you within the com­
pass of My arms and bring you the love of the
Father as well as the love of the Divine Mother
from Whose bosom you came forth into individual­
ization. You came with but one desire in your
sweet, earnest hearts—to do Their will, to carry
the light and to be the full manifestation of
Their love.
Hail to Thee! O, Spirit of this great mountain
(Grand Teton), mighty Deva holding the focus
of the powers of the Sacred Fire..............
From time immemorial there have been certain
spiritually advanced beings who have chosen to
become a part of the Cosmic moment, embody
and carry some portion of the God-design into
the world of form through the veil of physical
birth. I have often been invoked by such beings
and before they took birth, have promised them
that I would come to them at the time of the
11
12 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
fulfillment of their mission. In the full freedom
of My God-radiation, I promised to bring to them
remembrance of their vow, their Divine purpose
and of the capacity within their lifestreams to
fulfill that purpose in dignity, honor and victory.
Before the Holy Mary (Mother of Jesus) took
physical birth, I promised Her that I would come
and help Her by flashing into Her consciousness
the remembrance of the Immaculate Conception
which She was to hold. This was to be the seed
around which the electronic light and substance
of Earth would form to create the physical vehicle
of Jesus. However, much was dependent upon
Mary's Own consciousness in order that She might
be in a state of "listening grace" at the split second
when the Law would allow Me to make such a
visitation. Only thus would She be able to receive
My Presence, accept My words and be able to
feel that flash of illumination and Divine fire,
‘anchoring It within Her Own consciousness so
that It might be for Her the sustaining power in
the world of form.
From the day She was taken to the Temple, an
infant of three, Beloved Mary lived in a state of
constant "listening grace”. It was easy indeed for
Me to say when I stood before Her: "Hail, Mary,
full of graccl" Truly it seemed to be a somewhat
lonely life for such a small child, taken so young
from the arms of Her mother. While She was
raised with the other young girls of Judea, yet
Her interests were different from those among
CHILDHOOD OF BELOVED MOTHER MARY 13
whom She moved. Her life was one in which She
contemplated all the prophecies of the Old Testa­
ment; one in which She developed a tremendous
devotion to the Beloved Vesta (Spiritual Comple­
ment of Beloved Helios, the One in charge of our
physical Sun. Beloved Vesta is the Cosmic God­
mother of our planet and of our System). While
other children were playing with dolls, Mary
virtually cradled the world in those infant arms,
through the feeling of that Divine Mother-love
which She drew from Beloved Vesta Herself, by
Her contemplation and love of that great Being.
The angels were always around Her, enjoying the
fragrance of Her presence. Even in that small
body. She was truly a “Queen of the Angels”.
Mary grew in that grace, in that symmetry of
form, in that beauty and humility of nature—so
much so that there was practically no veil between
the Angelic Kingdom and Her own sweet Self.
It was well that such momentum was builded
and such faith and confidence established between
Her and the Angelic Kingdom during those early
sheltered years because, in Her later life, Mary
had the visitation of an Angel again. This time
He brought news of impending disaster. Mary
and Joseph, with that small baby, were called upon
to leave the shelter of Their home and journey
into Egypt, across a land filled with dangerous wild
life. Here She was sustained by this momentum
builded in Her early years and Her confidence
in the Celestial visitors. Her faith in Their word
14 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
was such that never for a moment did She question
Their reality or Their wisdom. Thus She re­
mained at peace, even though the Beloved Joseph
was torn between reason and intuition, feeling
within Himself the great responsibility of His
guardianship.
The large liquid eyes of Mary were always filled
with that faith indescribable and when They were
told by the Angel to make this journey into Egypt,
She said: “Joseph, we shall go!”.
Now you are those who follow a similar path.
You, too, are coming into closer association with
the Angelic Kingdom. This association is one of
the gifts of Our Beloved Friend and Ascended
Master Saint Germain. It is meant to bring to
mankind and incarnate Angels, the joy of associa­
tion with those of Us Whose pinions have never
been bound round by flesh. In your happy times,
cultivate confidence in Us and enjoy Our Presence.
Then, when it is required by the Law, and a
moment comes when perhaps your very safety or
that of others will depend upon that confidence,
you will be able to place your hands in the hands
of Celestial visitors and, as Mary said: “be the
handmaiden of your Lord”.
Thus is obedience builded out of love, not out
of fear; thus is friendship builded out of shared
sweet experiences; thus do the Angels draw close
into the aura of those who know love and there
We abide\ There We feel no separation from the
Father’s Kingdom............. "
-Qxcerptd ¡row an <dddred6
b\f
g>atnt flnim
3 k e b e l o v e d
April 7, 1955
(On: Wisdom and strength of Beloved Mary)
2
f f ^T“*HEN you will remember it was My
, . , jl honor to serve with Our Beloved
Mother Mary. I often wondered which was the
guard and which was the one who was receiving
the protection, for Her strength and Her power
were such—Her wisdom and capacity to teach were
such that I really think it was the mercy of the Law
that Beloved Jesus gave Me to Her, rather than
Her to Me. That comfort of Her Presence and
the warmth of Her light sustained Us until We
became anchored enough within Our Own light
to meet our Master again.................”
17
c 4 n c& ddredd
by
Itelmteii ilary
cIflotker o} ^ed u d
January 19, 1954
(On: H er service at inner Levels of forming Sacred Heart
for each incoming lifestream; "Immaculate Concept”; "Magnify-
the Lord”; Importance of being a conductor" of Master’
s light
and love.)
1 — _____—
---
3
AY the peace of God rest on you, beloved
children! May the love of God and for God
rise within your hearts, until it becomes the pre­
dominant feeling in your consciousness and you
become aware of that Divine Presence in every
cell and atom of your earnest selves.
Well do I know your hearts! It seems but yester­
day that you stood—pure white spirits—before Me
and presented to Me the elemental substance
which was to form your garments of flesh in the
next embodiment. Each of you had been called
before the Lords of Karma and given an oppor­
tunity to take a new incarnation, each one pre­
senting those energies which were to form the
envelope through which your soul might seek
understanding and ultimate freedom.
Since entering into the Realms of Eternal Light,
it has been My privilege to assist in the creation
of the Chalice (heart) which holds the Sacred Fire,
around which is drawn the elemental substance of
21
22 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the flesh form. Within this Chalice burns the Fire
of Immortality.
In each twelve-month cycle, every lifestream who
is to incarnate upon the Earth within that period,
enters My aura. Together We fashion the physical
heart which will enshrine the Sacred Fire of life
throughout the entire lifespan. Therefore, when
I enter a room and welcome the hearts, souls and
spirits of those present, I take great delight in
looking upon My Own handiwork. I rejoice as
the Flame within that Sacred Heart begins to
expand, dissolving the shadows and, one day, burst­
ing forth in a great transfiguration of the self into
the Presence. It is through this process of using
the Sacred Fire that the base substance, through
Divine Alchemy, is drawn into Divine purity. This
is the same method by which every lifestream who
has ascended entered into the full use of the Im­
mortal Electronic Garment—the Seamless Robe of
eternity.
While We have the great opportunity of hold­
ing the attention of mankind through this year*
upon Our Presence and Our service to life, I
shall endeavor to convey to the students (as well
as those who visit with Me in the Resurrection
Temple, or in any one of the Retreats or Sanctu­
aries where My Focus and Flame abide) the con­
sciousness of the “Immaculate Conception”. This
consciousness I developed through century after
I* Beloved Mother Mary and Beloved El Morya were the
Sponsors for the Mankind of Earth during 1954.
HER SERVICE AT INNER LEVELS 2 3
century of dedication of My spirit and self-con­
scious loyalty to God.
When the beloved Jesus was a very small boy,
He already manifested this purity of spirit. He
was born with a natural beauty of consciousness.
He had no karma. There was not a stain on His
soul, nor one flaw within His thoughts and feel­
ings that would contaminate the perfect expres­
sion of His mind, His body, or His spirit. Pure
and perfect as Jesus was, He had the use of the
faculties of the senses more highly developed than
any child born of woman. He had perfect sight,
perfect hearing, perfect taste, touch and smell. Be­
sides this, He had a great sensitive intuition to
spiritual things. Jesus was like a beautiful, delicate
instrument, made to contact the vibratory action,
not only of the physical world, but the Higher
Spheres as well. This exquisitely developed life-
stream wasnaturally capable of drawing the appear­
ance world into Himself with greater impact, by
the very clarity of His senses; much more so than
the dense and dull consciousness that perceives
little and exists rather than lives. Along with every
man and woman on Earth, Jesus had the gift
of free-will, into which even I (by Cosmic Law)
was not permitted to intrude through the pressure
of My desire for His freedom. It was My great
privilege to help that consciousness to use those
faculties to magnify the God of Light and the
perfection of the Father Whom He had vowed to
represent to the race. Think on this for a moment!
24 MEMOIRS BELOVED MARY
Jesus did not live in a "charmed world." We lived
in a small, humble village and He was called upon
to "rub shoulders" with the lame, the halt and
the sick; with the diseased of mind and body. In
the day when We walked the Earth, there were no
institutions to close around those desolate forms
which today are not apparent to the masses.
This beautiful and delicate-minded boy, dressed
in His simple little white tunic, the sandals that
Joseph made for Him upon his feet, was exposed
to every thought on every plane, with only Our
love to clothe Him round. It was then that I said
to Him: "Son, your soul has the power to magnify
anything that you choose to accept as real. You
may magnify an appearance of illness and distress
or you may magnify the Lord oTTife.” Then I
tried to s/jouTTTim the simple principles which I
shall present night after night in Our Resurrec­
tion Temple while it is active during this thirty-
day period and which I intend to give to the stu­
dents at every opportunity I have to speak to them
throughout the year. Jesus has said that it helped
Him so much to deliberately magnify the Lord
instead of appearances and I tell you that it saved
My sanity many times throughout that embodi­
ment. Saint Germain (as Joseph), often blessed
that principle also. It helped Me to go through
the initiations that I hope no other unascended
being will ever be called upon to take. Therefore,
I guarantee that it will help your individual souls
through every experience you may have.
HER SERVICE AT INNER I.EVELS
Beloved ones, your souls, are magnets. From
your soul flows your life. That with which your
attention connects, your soul does magnify. It is
a mathematical and scientific principle which none
can escape, be they initiates, chelas or laymen.
You may magnify good or evil. When your atten­
tion connects with any appearance, your life flows
from your own heartbeat into it and it grows,
magnifying in your own consciousness—both in
the appearance world and in the inner realms—
wherever that soul abides. Now, you may either
magnify the shadows and distresses of the appear­
ance world, or you may magnify the Power of God
by turning the beam of your energy and attention
to that Holy Christ Self. Hold your attention there,
dedicating it to receiving and magnifying Its
Powers and Qualities, until your Inner Self grows
in confidence, grows in beauty and grows in per­
fection in imitation of that One. We made a
game of it when Jesus was young. As children do,
He would come with bruises on His feet or on
His knees (all the various appearances that affect
small growing boys) and I would say: "We shall
not magnify that hurt or that scar. We shall mag­
nify Our Lord.” Then, turning Our attention to
that Perfect Pattern, the three of Us would draw
the healing and peace of that Presence through
Our beings until the appearance of imperfection
would disappear. We did this systematically. We
did it daily. Together, We gathered a momentum
that I, within Myself, knew was building a posi-
1
2 6 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
live power of resistance in the consciousness of
Jesus against every appearance of evil, so that
when His Cosmic moment came upon Him, He
could even look at death itself and refuse to mag­
nify it by the power of one heartbeat. Thus He
turned all the power of His energy to Life, magni­
fying the power of that life through Him until
death itself was vanquishedl Do you see?
It should be the same with you, dear hearts.
We have watched the family life of mankind and
I have watched the mothers and the fathers of the
race. I have seen them in their great sincerity,
with their great sense of personal responsibility
and their earnest desire to surround their indi­
vidual flock with security and protection. Yet
through that very sincerity, they magnify the ap­
pearance of distress. Instead they should magnify
the All-power of the Presence, until the energy of
the up-reaching consciousness would conduct the
substance of healing, supply and protection, into
the world of form. I have said within Myself:
“When opportunity presents itself, I SHALL
MAKE TH E MAGNIFICAT’ THE CREED OF
TH E CONSCIOUS CHELAS. They shall accede
as I did to that principle of Truth that stood within
My world until they are free."
Oh, Sons of HeavenI Daughters of Heaven!
Why magnify the appearance world? Together
let us magnify the Powers of the Lord! Thank
you for accepting the feeling of this, dear heart
friends! As I witness the coming of the Masters
HER SERVICE AT INNER LEVELS 27
into the consciousness o£ the earnest students,
bringing Their gifts of light, Their vision of things
to come, and then I see the distress of the per­
sonal self of those earnest ones, the limitations
and the shadows of the soul, My heart is near to
bursting with the desire to convey to you how
simple it is to connect with the Christ Self. It is
done by just turning your attention, your spirit
and your senses to the ever-present God (within
your heart), allowing your energies to bask in
that uplifting, healing, omnipresent consciousness
of All Good; feeling the Flame of your own heart
like an unfolding lotus, conducting those God-
qualilied energies into die world of form.
All of the great men and women who have per­
formed the seeming miracles of the ages have been
merely "conductors”. My beloved Jesus was merely
a "conductor” Who connected the energies of
His physical and inner bodies with His Father-
Mother God. He had such perfect trust in God,
that no outer appearance could ever draw an
electron from &is feeling world or cause Him to
magnify it! That was His tremendous accomplish­
ment, the feeling of which He has offered to give
to any individual who cares to accept it. (His
feeling carries His power of accomplishment!) I
was present in Cana where Jesus performed His
first so-called "miracle". There He just turned
His attention to the Father of All Good and al­
lowed the energies of His Own inner bodies to
change the substance of that water into electronic
28 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARV
light—the people unconsciously qualifying it with
that which they desired to manifest (which was
wine). It is one of the simplest activities, just a
"letting go” of the limited outer self and connect­
ing inwardly with the Presence of God, allowing
His power of healing, of supply or of peace, to
flow into the manifestation.
Blessed onesl This should be a year of tremen­
dous importance to you. Even if a handful of you
can grasp the significance of this Law, if you can
work it out in some simple manifestation, feeling
the power of your own energies connecting with
the power of the Christ Self—you will truly be
Ourselves in action! You move around in the
world of form and your senses have been in the
habit of bringing to your consciousness reports of
good and evil. Won't you now try to change that
by accepting only the goodf Will you try to re­
member Me as you go about your daily work and
let Us see what you will magnify in the course of
each day? It is a happy training and a pleasant
pastime. You know yourself, even in your human
activities, how grateful you are when friends do
not magnify your weaknesses and how grateful is
the soul when there is even one who magnifies
your service, your capacities and your capabilities!
That is what We do constantly! You know, some
of the students are unduly concerned when We
commend individuals for accomplishment. Judg­
ing from human standards, they question the wis­
dom of Our commendation but We are magnify-
MER SERVICE AT INNER LEVELS 2 9
ing the good while the limited outer consciousness
of the student magnifies the appearance. If We
had not magnified the good, the human race would
have passed into the "second death” long ago.
There is not a member of the Spiritual Hierarchy
Who ever took human embodiment, Who would
have been able to get "Home" God-free, if some
other soul had not chosen to stand by and mag­
nify the good within that incarnated spirit. Some­
one held the faith, held the confidence, held the
trust, while the individual (engaged in Cosmic
service), endeavored to fulfill his mission.
May every God-Presence now individualized
choose to magnify the good in each other. When
that is done. We shall have a Universal heart and
a body, a soul and a spirit made up of every life-
stream belonging to the Father-Mother God that
will truly embody the nature of the Cosmic Christ.
To your hearts, to your families, to your loved
ones, I direct the energy of the Flame of My
Presence, for your beautiful hospitality and for
your exquisite remembrance of Me in your daily
life. Your devotion draws Us closer and closer and
gives Us opportunity without limit to bless you
individually and collectively.
For Myself, I shall magnify the light in your
hearts, for I believe in you. You know, I helped
to create those hearts and I shall see you God-free!
I bless you and thank you. Now I shall say
"Good Evening".
cJîddreôô
h
Iplmtpîi üarg
<
~YYlptU.er o} ^.eàuà
February 5, 1954
(On: Importance of meditation and contemplation; Impor­
tance of gathered momentums in decrees; More on Mary’s
service of forming Sacred Heart; Great Initiation of Jesus; Jesus’
visitation with Mary and disciples for forty days after
Resurrections .
4
Q E LOVED children, I come to bring to you
JD My love and gratitude for your deep interest
in life and to endeavor through conveyed con­
sciousness to show you ways and means by which
your individual worlds might again be set into
Divine order. I do this that you may find your­
selves conductors of that Presence of God which
mentally you have accepted as filling this Universe;
but which requires the confirmation of your feel­
ings to be ever active through you into this world
of form.
In a measure, each of you is a bridge conducting
the consciousness of the Inner Realms into the
world of form and acting as mediators (even as I
do at inner levels) between the fullness of God
and the Intelligences which represent Him and
the mass mind.
Mankind may rebel all they wish at the neces­
sity for mediation between the fullness of the God­
head and the outer consciousness. However, the
Law of Life and the Intelligence that governs the
33
34 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
great Universal Scheme of Creation, has provided
these "step-down" transformers in mercy. This is
done so that those who voluntarily and consciously
descended into the pit might have a chain of
energy over which the blessings, the mercy and
the very spiritual life (which sustains their souls)
may flow. In time, over such a chain of energy
(when the voluntary energies of their own worlds
so desire) they may ascend again into their right­
ful estate and assume their places as Sons and
Daughters of the Most High Living God.
Even as the spider weaves out of his body the
web and uses it as a means of transportation to
and fro, so is the bridge of life energy woven out
of the very Essence of Divinity. It is carried by
the Messengers and the lifestreams who may have
only a partial connection with the Realm of Per­
fection, in order to infiltrate the consciousness,
stimulate a love for Truth and, wherever possible,
act as instruments of Faith by which works may
be manifest.
Each of you has developed (over the ages and
through the centuries) certain momentums that
make you conductors for specific qualities that
represent the nature of God. These momentums
are your individual and voluntary gift to life.
They are the treasures stored up in heaven. They
are that part of you which We can use to external­
ize Our work and service in the world of form.
They are the only part of any lifestream with
which We are concerned. It is Our desire at all
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 35
times to emphasize and externalize more and more
of the nature of God through the ‘‘leaven" in the
individual lifestream. This "leaven” may be faith,
purity, peace, happiness, or it may be a momentum
of teaching or healing. These examples are just
to give you a “bird’s-eye” picture, you might say,
of the way We in the Hierarchy work in drawing
around ourselves certain lifestreams who We feel
can best serve the Divine Plan in cooperation
with Our life. We then endeavor to connect Our
energies with these individuals through whatever
means are at hand.
We connect Our energies with mankind by radi­
ation; through the contemplation by your blessed
selves in thinking upon Our Presence. We also
connect Our radiation with your consciousness
through the spoken word at the rare intervals
when life allows Us this privilege. In every in­
stance, every Perfected Being Who lives within
the Kingdom, contacts unascendcd beings solely to
expand the borders of the Kingdom; to expand
the radiation of perfection and to draw more light
and more of the God gifts into this world of form,
into the Psychic and Astral Realm which forms the
atmosphere of your planet.
My service to life has been connected with the
creation of the heart through which the Sacred
Fire is focused into the physical appearance world,
giving identity and being to a personality for a
time. It is an interesting service that perhaps can
be elaborated upon. You use it yourselves in this
36 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Activity to create a heart-center, made up of living
cells, living intelligent beings having free will.
However, this is different from the heart made up
of intelligent energy sworn to obedience, which
is the physical heart of an individual.
When the lifestream is given the grant of secur­
ing a new Earth body and when the Lords of
Karma have passed on it, that lifestream is drawn
into My Temple. Together We look over the
substance and energy which the soul has used (oh!
perhaps through aeons of tim e). This is the per­
sonal heritage endowed by nature to that soul to
form the envelope in which it must function.
As I have said before, We endeavor first to
fashion (from that elemental substance) the heart,
which is the chalice for the Immortal Three-fold
Flame of Life. The heart cells in the physical body
are the most highly developed of the elemental
substances that make up the physical form be­
cause, in the course of their service to life, they
require more resistance and more durability, in
order to stand the “beat” which gives life to the
physical body. Therefore, from among all the
elemental substance which will form the flesh gar­
ment, the most highly developed electrons are
used in the heart. These are drawn into the body
of the prospective mother and become part of the
flesh of her form, even before conception takes
place. Then through that marvelous intelligence
of the Builders of Form, the heart cells belonging
to the new soul are segregated from the body of
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 37
the mother, always discarding the substance which
is of the parent. In this way, the substance which
is of the new soul makes this exquisite Chalice en­
folding the Three-Fold Flame of Life.
It is such a beautiful, mathematical and scien­
tifically accurate process that I would love to show
you in pictures on a screen the precision with
which the Builders of Form magnetize the sub­
stance belonging to the incoming soul and cast off
again, again and again one cell out of every two,
until this heart is formed.
In exactly the same measure and manner, the
cells that are to form the spiritual heart of a com­
munity, a Movement, a great Nation, a planet, a
Universe or a Galaxy, are selected from the life-
streams who have developed the greatest endur­
ance and the greatest purity. These have earned
through the ages of time the privilege and honor
of forming the canopy of protection around the
Sacred Fire which is to be drawn forth and ex­
panded for the blessing of the masses.
From the great body of mankind, there are not
available too many cells that can be used for a
spiritual heart. From within the spiritually at­
tuned and elect, We find seven distinct types of
individual momentums and consciousness which
could be utilized in the seven ganglionic centers
of the Spiritual Body of the Christ. These people
respond to the impetus of a New Activity. They
know that they are destined, you might say, to
become a part of some vital organ in a great cur-
3 8 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
rent endeavor, whether it be a World Movement
or a local political activity. In that response they
sometimes apply for a position within the heart,
although they belong to another center. The same
spiritual segregation goes on constantly, drawing
in the heart cells, purifying them, fitting them one
by one into their perfect place; then endeavoring
harmoniously, if possible, to draw the other cells
into their own vital organism.
This is the activity in which you are engaged
today, beloved ones. More or less, you are the
substance being formed by the Hands and Hearts
of Intelligences greater than your own. In this
great scheme of things each one has his perfect
place. We who can see, have designed so carefully
the creation of the Spiritual Heart. This will be
the supplier of the energies to vitalize this great
Spiritual Body that is to be the Cosmic Christ of
the future, made up of every one of the ten billion
souls destined to incarnate and develop mastery
on the Earth.
The creation of a heart is the most crucial point
in the creation of a physical organism. It is also
a most crucial point in the creation of a spiritual
organization. It requires tremendous application
upon the part of each and every lifestream who
has been "summoned” by the Law, and who has
been even loosely fitted into the design.
As I have been honored this year by being given
opportunity to reach the masses, I am also hon­
ored by the opportunity of working with those of
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 39
you who choose to see the design behind the seem­
ing chaos and confusion. As My own momentum
allows and the wisdom of My centuries of forming
hearts permits, I shall endeavor to help you in
your task.
In the physical body, if at the time of gestation
the cells that are to form the seven great centers
might not polarize properly (for some reason or
other) or are not held within their orbit perfectly,
you have a physical instrument of incarnation that
is defective in one or many ways.
The spiritual sorting (wherein every lifestream
takes his perfect place and abides therein) is essen­
tial before We can expand the endeavor to raise
and redeem the masses and purify all discordantly
qualified functions in the spiritual body of the
race.
We are in a secret and sacred time, a time when
I, Myself, remembering My own experience, sug­
gest that you ponder these things in your heart.
Pray on them; ask the grace of your own Christ
Self to illumine them to you and then strain not,
but endeavor to be the best cell that you can in
your appointed place.
I have thought it would be a pleasurable gift to
life this year to endeavor to record some of the
heretofore unchronicled experiences of Our life
in Judea. From time to time as opportunity per­
mits, I shall bring to your remembrance certain of
these homely pictures and scenes.
40 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Prior to the Great Initiation of Our blessed
Jesus, We used to sit together in comparative
privacy in those few moments We sometimes had
when there were no demands for assistance from
the public. We talked about the ways and means
by which We could best perpetuate the Truth,
preserve the clarity of Jesus' message and give It
to posterity as a workable law.
During the years of My Son’s life, I dedicated
Myself almost entirely to the holding of that Im­
maculate God-concept for Hinc I did not engage
in any extraneous services except those required
of My household. I endeavored to live in a state
of constant contemplation of His Divine Man­
hood, emphasizing His mastery through the pres­
sure of My Own concentrated thought and feel­
ing. After the blessed Joseph was removed from
the screen of life, I felt a double responsibility in
the holding of this “Immaculate Concept.” I can
tell you sincerely that it was not without much
personal regret that I parted from the great
strength, the quiet serenity and dignity of Joseph
to walk that path more or less alone. However,
the Law of Life and the Lords of Karma deter­
mined it to be so and when His mission was ac­
complished He, like all the others before Him,
folded His robes about Him and returned into
the Heart of the Father. It was My opportunity
to remain.
Sometimes, Jesus and I would sit together in
the evening and talk over the various points that
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 41
were to be emphasized through His ministry.
More than once. We discussed the necessity of
passing through the appearance of death in order
to prove the Immortality of Life and that man,
through his own consciousness, might transcend
death and master a garment which, to all intents
and appearances, had lost its vitality.
In the Retreat where this Initiation takes place
(for instance, at Luxor), it is comparatively easy
for the highly trained Initiate to withdraw the
I senses from contact with the world about him and
suspend the breath, so that, to all intents and
purposes, the body is “dead". However, to per­
form this act consciously, amid hundreds of vicious
and uncontrolled consciousnesses, is an Initiation
of a different sort! Yet the outer consciousness is
such that unless mankind themselves actually per­
formed and executed the death sentence, they
would never have believed that the Resurrection
was authentic and that it was not the trick of a
fakir or a manifestation of hypnosis.
, I will tell you frankly, neither Jesus nor Myself
, relished the necessity of having Him pass through
this great service to life. When He did ask that
that “cup" be taken from Him, it was because
none, ascended or unascended, knew for a cer­
tainty that victory would be assured through a
public demonstration. You see, through such a
demonstration, all of the astral and psychic vicious­
ness that had accumulated since the "fall of man"
was directed through those embodied individuals
42 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY ^
who allowed themselves to be used as pawns of
that "force”. They acted it out on the screen of
life, endeavoring to destroy the serenity and equa­
nimity of the Initiate. Not only the pitiful masses
who opened themselves to those "forces” but the
far more subtle and powerful influences that
wished to destroy the victory of/hat mission, were
something with which to be reckoned.
From the time that the first so-called “miracle”
at Cana placed Jesus’ name before the people,
through the days of Golgotha, I made (what you
would call today in the terms of the Church) a
"Perpetual Novena”. I spent hours, every avail­
able moment that I was not attending to the
necessities to keep our bodies alive, in contempla­
tion and in prayer for the fulfillment of the victory
of the Resurrection through Him.
Luke (one of the disciples), was a physician
and had been privately initiated by Jesus in some
of the subtle activities connected with healing.
Yet He would often say: “I do not believe it can
be done”! However, as you know, it was done
beautifully with the assistance of the Great Maha
Chohan and the beloved friends, Ascended and
otherwise. The memory and the glory of that ex­
perience remains to this day!
I speak of this only because you might wonder
why We did not plan more for the future. Our
minds and hearts were more or less concentrated
on making this mission so dynamically and posi­
tively impressed upon and imbedded in the con-
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 43
sciousness of the people, that somehow We didn't
think too far beyond the Resurrection morning.
Those of you who were close by in those years
know that the mission of Jesus was deeply re­
corded in the etheric bodies which you carry; also
the victories and the miracles recorded in writing
the books of the Bible, which have been a pattern
for the people up to the present day. These rec­
ords are to be re-vivified now and brought forth
as a positive proof of His Truths and His great
Cosmic Service to life.
However, as We drew closer to that final pag­
eant, Jesus and I decided between Us that I should
return to Bethany. You see, in Bethany, we knew
(almost) the only happiness during those difficult
days. We knew “home“ there. We knew the
sweetness of the flowers and the joy of friendship
that was untouched by desire for personal gain.
We used to sit there and just rejoice in the Pres­
ence of God and of each other.
Jesus said: “Mother, in Bethany I think you
and those who will remain can best live out those
years yet allotted You. If the Law permits, I shall
visit you there from time to time and, to the best
of My ability, convey to You and those of My
heart friends, the Laws which will strengthen and
assist You to help the people”.
So, on that day at Calvary, when the hours of
trial were accomplished, John and I walked down
that hill. Remembering our Blessed Jesus' ad­
monition, John took Me back to Bethany and the
other disciples joined us there shortly after Easter
44 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
morning. There We had the exquisite association
with each other in the forty days before the Ascen­
sion, which time was given Us by the Karmic
Board as a grant of mercy. If the disciples and
the heart-sore believers had been denied that as­
sociation of the mystical Presence of Jesus for
those forty days, I think they could not have held
the faith! The Resurrection Morn was a very
small instant. It could Have'been (the human
mind would say) conjured up out of hope, but for
forty long days We had a visitation every day!
Sometimes we had just minutes; sometimes an
hour with Our Beloved and so the Ascension Day
was not as difficult a parting as was Good Friday.
The story of Our stay in Bethany and how We
devised the plan to set the Christian Era into ac­
tion, I am going to endeavor to draw forth for
you as quickly as time will permit and your ener­
gies allow Me the freedom to enter your worlds.
It is a pleasant recital—a happy and peaceful one!
It is about a time when Jesus did come—O, yes!
very often—and talked with Us; a time when We
recorded many Truths; a time when Peter, James
and John wrote Gospels that remain hidden to
this day! They will one day come forth as the
mystical and inner teachings of the Christ. My
story is also about a time when healings were
manifested—O, in a simple and unostentatious
way perhaps; a time when those who loved My
Son chose to embody His teachings in learning
the intricacies of mystical healing. At that time,
I also wrote certain treatises for posterity which I
IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION 45
hope to bring to your attention at a later date.
This was a time when ages yet unborn were un­
folded before Us, from the free heart and Spirit
of the One We called Master and Friend. Bethany
will always hold a place in My heart and the hearts
of all who were a part of It there.
This morning, I have come primarily to bring
you peace, beloved ones; to confirm the Ascended
Masters’ faith in your light; to confirm the trust
and belief of the Brotherhood in your spiritual
integrity and to tell you, each one, that you are
precious beyond words in the sight of God. This
may seem of very little import to human senses,
but the registration of the outer thoughts and feel­
ings of the people is no measure for that which is
God-confirmed.
Beloved children, it is a beautiful thing to look
at hearts you fashioned thirty, forty, fifty years ago
and see them so little changed; in many cases, to
see the crystal light having raised the vibratory
action of every cell. It is a beautiful thing, when
one gives a lovely piece of handiwork to any of
God’s children and finds it sustained in grace,
often burnished by the light and fire of suffering,
until it is a more beautiful Chalice. One day,
when you lay these bodies down and carry the
replica of that heart into the Halls of Karma, it
will be lovely to see it with the light shining
through, containing within it the harvest of your
service in all your embodiments. I, for One, am
looking forward to that day with great joy. Thank
you and God bless you!
cJln cJlddredd
by
Iplotteii Hlarg
c f?lother of ^edud
Good Friday—
April 16th, 1954
(On: Personal experiences and thoughts on first Good Friday;
Mary's training and ability to hold "Immaculate Concept"
and H er determination to hold it for each one on Earth now;
Activities of the Sacred Heart Tem ple at Inner Levels which is
H er particular interest and service to life.)
5
TIELOVED children, do you know that today
± J is an anniversary? Today is the anniversary
of that first Good Friday when I was given the
marvelous opportunity of becoming the Mother
of every one of you—the Mother of every soul
belonging to this evolution; the Mother of every
precious aspiring spirit belonging to the evolu­
tions of this planet. Through this opportunity, it
is My privilege to love, to care for each one, en­
folding them in that personalized radiation of
interest and solicitude of motherhood until all
have attained their full mastery in the light!
That first Good Friday morning, I walked alone
up a dreary hillside, the Mother of One and walked
down a few hours later, the Mother oi millions!
Was that not an opportunity? Was it not a crown­
ing glory rather than a sorrow? Good Friday
changed Me from a woman with individual inter­
ests, to a Cosmic Mother of all the souls so dear
to the Heart of God and I shall always remember
It thus! It is always so in one’s experience—when
49
50 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
you give that which is most clear to you, returning
it to the Universal in accordance with God’s will,
though it tear your heart! The return from God
is most generous in its blessings, in that, where
before there was One most precious, there is born
the love for the many!
How shall I describe to you, My dear ones, the
exaltation of the soul when the consciousness and
feelings are lifted up and Your arms become the
"everlasting arms" that enfold all the conscious­
nesses that belong to this Earth with the same
intensity of purpose that you have held for the
One or the few? My ministry and experience is
a magnificent example of this because, by the
very nature of the service that Jesus was to per­
form, I was required to take an Initiation to per­
fect Myself upon one-pointedness and concentra­
tion of My energy, My substance, My protection
and My life around that single lifestream. By the
very importance of the Cosmic moment, I was not
allowed to let My attention wander. Then, in an
instant, that One was removed Who was the focus
of My attention; of all My life; all My love and
solicitude; all the nights of sleepless prayer; all
of the days of constant calling to God for help;
and then I received the command from the Heart
of the Great Father of All to expand that solicitude
to encompass the many—all at once!
Beloved ones, witness the wisdom of the Great
Law in building a momentum! That Great Law
drew the power of concentration, of love and self-
THOUGHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 51
lcssness, of purity and dedication, building of it
a concentrated focus that, on a Cosmic instant,
the Flame from the Heart of the Universal struck
into that momentum, expanded it and made it
world-wide and world-engulfing!
Witness the kindness of the Law to leave no
vacuum—no emptiness—not even one moment of
desolation before the Spirit of the One gave the
command: "Mother, behold Thy children!'' and
“Children, behold thy Mother!” The moment
those words were spoken, the Flame within My
heart expanded and in the relinquishing of the
spirit of Jesus into the bosom of the Eternal Father,
I was filled with that great radiation of love for all!
O, the kindness of God—the mercy of life—in
that hour of Our Initiation! I can speak with
authority when I say to you—you are never, never,
never alone! That which you build so humbly in
your daily, hourly living is forming a focus which,
at a particular moment, can be expanded as was
Mine. A series of apparently humble daily experi­
ences into which all the energies of My bodies
were poured, budded a form that was to be for
Me My strength, My balance and My sanity in the
hour of My need. So, you also build your strength
in the quietness of the days before the release of
the opportunity which will be your individual
destiny. No man knows when that hour comes;
for each one it is different. For Me, it was at
Calvary! For you, each one, a great, Cosmic climax
to your Earth's experiences will occur and then
52 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the mercy of the great Universal First Cause, bless­
ing you, will sustain you through to your victory.
It was required of Me to stand guard, fully con­
scious, on that hillside throughout those hours
of Jesus’ crucifixion. I thought you might care to
know of what I was thinking while I kept watch
there. I stood and held the Immaculate Concep­
tion of Life Eternal within My consciousness, en­
deavoring to duplicate in the physical body, the
Initiation through which I had passed victoriously
before Jesus and I took embodiment. I stood there
and held the concentrated Christ focus of the
Resurrection Flame for My Son and to do this I
concentrated all of My energies on a happy pat­
tern of Our life experiences.
I began thinking back to the Council in which
the Lord Maitreya, in His great mercy and kind­
ness, offered Me the opportunity of holding the
Immaculate Concept of the Divine Man against
the pressures of Initiation. During that Initiation,
the spiritual winds blew and the pressures of
thought and feeling from within Me, as well as
those directed at Me by the Brotherhood, tried to
break My line of thought, My pattern of thinking
and feeling to allow the intrusion of other ideas,
even good ones, on the visualization of the perfect
Image which I was holding. I remembered the
sweet voice of Lord Maitreya (at the close of the
three hours of Initiation) giving the blessing,
saying: "It is well, Mary. However, remember
that the winds You have felt, the pressures You
THOUGHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 53
have known in the full freedom of Your inner
bodies, are as naught before those You will feel l
exuding from the consciousness of mankind who, i
in impurity, selfishness, bigotry and viciousness,
will drive at You, at Your Spouse and at Your
Child, after the mission is begun!”
Standing in the winds of Calvary’s hilltop, look-
2. ing at the greed in the consciousness of those who
loved and enjoyed the spectacle, I remembered
well those words and I held with every fibre and
cell of My being to that Immaculate Concept of
the resurrected, risen, breathing Christ. With
every cell and atom of My being I called to Lord
Maitreya, to the beloved Vesta, to the beloved
Helios, to the beloved Gabriel and to every One
Who had given Me assistance. “O, God! O, God!
O, God!” I prayed. “Help Me now in the physical
appearance world, wearing the garment of flesh,
part of the mental and emotional body of this
Earth—help Me to hold this Immaculate Concept
through these hours.”
I sensed the response from the heart of the Sun;
I saw the Presence of Vesta; I saw above Jesus the
luminous, shining Presence of Lord Maitreya; I
felt the wingspread of Gabriel’s kindly and lumi­
nous Presence; I knew Friends—Friends that are
yours today—just for the asking!
Then I thought of a winter night long ago and
a simple stable. I thought, too, of Joseph, My
loving Husband and My heart went out to Him.
Within Myself I cried: “O, Joseph! Joseph! Were
54 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
it but possible that You could be here with Me
today! Were it but possible that the strength of
Your light could sustain Me now as I hold the
Concept that We so happily held through Jesus'
growing years to this day! O! that it were possible
for You to stand with Me now as We stood so often
at the doorway of Our home and visualized and
witnessed this innocent form growing to mastery."
Joseph was there with Me, in spirit of course!
Friends of light, friends that build the bonds that
last for Eternity, some of you were there with Us
then; some of you here remember that day!
I thought also of the long, tedious ride into
Egypt; of the sleepless nights when we fled before
the soldiers of Herod; of Our coming into a strange
land; of the entrance into the Temple to which
we returned in our later years. All of these me­
mories I summoned up from within My etheric
body, keeping My mind busy upon the plan and
pattern of Perfection, holding to every happiness,
every memory that blotted out the appearance of
the hour. In time (for time is the great healer)
as I continued to hold that Immaculate Concept
undisturbed, Its perfect work was done and I be­
came the marvelously blessed Receiver of the souls
of men.
Filled with an inner peace and exaltation, I
walked with John down that hill and out of Jeru­
salem. "Ah,” I thought, “Jerusalem, fickle City!
Just one week ago the Hosannas rang—yet three
days hence Thou art destined to be the stage for
THOUGHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 55
a drama remembered for ages. The Temples shall
have fallen, the decayed walls broken and the
voices which were raised in the call for the cruci­
fixion shall be stilled.”
In peace, John and I walked to Bethany and
there We remained until the days were accom­
plished and the Resurrection was fact. My Son,
triumphant, visiting Us thereafter, established a
focus for the Christian Dispensation and there We
abode for thirty long years, until I was privileged
to receive My summons and join the Celestial
group of Beings Who have come home “to go out
no more".
Well, it is done and it is written! There are
so many lifestreams who contributed to the wealth
of our love in that life. Among them are the be­
loved Angels, the beloved Gabriel and Michael
the beloved Joseph (Saint Germain), the beloved
John, Peter and James as well as many of you
in this room today. In Our free state, We have
not forgotten you dear ones. Bless your hearts,
you are all My children! You know, I have a
momentum of holding that “Immaculate Concept”
(perhaps I gained it the hard way) but what I
did for Jesus I have now vowed before God to do
for all the ten billion souls of Earth, walking the
pathway “Home”. I am doing this now for each
one with the same intensity with which I held it
for My beloved Son. Ah, the crucifixion is not
over as long as any man, woman or child is in pain.
The individual crucifixion of every son and
5 6 MEMOIRS OK BELOVED MARY
daughter of man is not so great compared to
Our experience, but I promise you that by My
faith, My one-pointedness, My ability to hold that
vision for you, each of you shall be set free!
Thank you, beloved ones, for accepting My prom­
ise. The feeling of acceptance, bursting forth from
your heart-flame, is your freedom! Even while you
believe that your individual cross is heavy, even
while you believe that the nails in your hands
and feet are painful, I am seeing the resurrected,
living Christ of each of you bursting from the
tomb of your human consciousness. I am seeing
that Christ stand forth transformed as I did for
My Son on the hill of Golgotha.
Can you withstand that vision, that hope, that
faith? Ah, nol You know, a mother cannot be
convinced that her child is not worth while. No
real mother can accept even in the face of physical
action, proof in fact that her child is not good at
heart for within herself she knows the perfection
of his real Self. For you all, I stand before
the Sun in Heaven; I stand in the Halls of Karma,
before the Karmic Board; I stand before every
Being, Power, Force, Virtue, Law and Activity of
the Universal One and refuse acceptance of the
ability or capacity of any lifestream to sustain evil
indefinitely. My light and My love shall draw
forth the good from within all lifestreams as My
light and love through Jesus did draw forth His
mastery! (Audience arose to express gratitude
THOUCHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 5 7
for this service). Thank you, beloved ones, and
won't you be seated please?
If there is one thing i* this world I love to do,
it is to make life comfortable. You know, in Our
activities of healing through the Temples, I always
instruct the Devas and the Brothers and Sisters
Who assist Me to first make the energies of the
physical bodies as comfortable as possible. You
see, the consciousness is not receptive to healing or
any grace or virtue while the body is resentful or
in discomfort. Therefore, I would advise you in­
dividually (particularly when you come to class)
to make your bodies as comfortable as possible
but in an alert and positive way—not in lethargy!
Then you will receive the blessing that is Ours
to give.
We are in a Cosmic moment today and just
briefly I wish to speak to you about it, asking for
the contribution of your energies. As I have told
you previously, it is My privilege to create the
physical heart for each child that is to take on a
physical embodiment. The Temple of the Sacred
Heart in which both Jesus and I work, is dedicated
to drawing around the soul (with the help of the
Body Elemental) that substance which will make
the Sacred Heart the Tabernacle of the Immortal
Threefold Flame of Life. We use the most perfect
substance of the lifestream to create that heart.
At this time, all seven of the Great Lords of
Karma are present in the Halls of Karma and to
Them is being presented the soul of every life-
5 8 MEMOIRS OK BELOVED MARY
stream who can be admitted to incarnation on the
Earth plane within tiie next twelve-month period.
From these souls presented, the Karmic Board will
choose those who are to have the opportunity to
re-embody. For every soul who is chosen, two
will be denied. That is the Law.
Under the ordinary activities of life heretofore,
the choice has been made without regard to the
preponderance of spiritual lifestreams. It is made
quite impersonally. However, now the Beloved
Master Morya and other interested Masters, have
evolved the idea of asking the Lords of Karma for
the opportunity of bringing into embodiment
spiritually awakened people who will take the vow
of obedience to the Beloved Sanat Kumara before
they incarnate. These people will then work
throughout this current period to set themselves
free; to bring an understanding of the Great White
Brotherhood to mankind at large; to co-operate
with the Ascended Masters and the Will of God
and to serve life generally. This petition was pre­
sented by the Beloved Serapis Bey last evening,
for which I am eternally grateful to Him. Your
decrees, your songs, your calls to the Great Karmic
Board for the granting of this petition will bear
great weight and We are hoping by this coming
Sunday to have some answer from that August
Body. May I digress here for a moment? You
see, Our love for Serapis Bey is very great. As the
Head of the Luxor Brotherhood in Egypt, He gave
both Jesus and Myself great assistance. Previous
THOUGHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 59
to the public ministry of the Beloved Jesus, My
Son and I returned to Egypt and We spent three
years at Luxor. At this time We both became
Masters of the final Initiation which is the partic­
ular interest of the Luxor Retreat, i.e., the con­
scious removal of the current of life from the body
and the returning of it again through the con­
trolled breath. This was done to prepare Us for
Jesus’ supreme test. Being so very close to My
Son, I also took the Initiation so that My con­
sciousness might be one with His during that
experience.
Just to show you the immensity of the program
—there are over three hundred million souls apply­
ing for re-embodiment! That may seem a lot to
you but, remember, there are around seven bil­
lions of souls always waiting at the Gates of Birth!
At the present time, there are in the neighborhood
of three billion souls incarnated. The law is that
approximately one-third of the ten billion souls
belonging to this planet are in embodiment on the
Earth at one time; while the other two-thirds are
out of embodiment, living in the Inner Realms.
So three hundred million is not such a large per­
centage of seven billions. The entire seven billions
are scheduled to come through the Gates of Birth
before the current twenty-year period is up. You
can see this is a tremendous task.
At this time, the three hundred million are mov­
ing in a slow procession before the Lords of
Karma. These must be sorted out, separated ac-
60 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
cording to consciousness and examined. This ex­
amination is performed in groups where the con­
sciousness is not illumined enough to allow them
to go into bodies spiritually awakened. However,
this is done individually where the lifestream
is spiritually awakened and where they are to be
of potential service to the race. If the petition of
the Beloved Serapis is passed (referred to before)
then there will be a meeting in the month of May
when these people will be offered opportunity at
Inner Levels to take the Oath of Obedience to be­
loved Sanat Kumara. This should be a magnifi­
cent activity if it is accomplished. If you people in
the outer world will have your classes at the time
this is done, we are bound to feel the gratitude of
the Great Law.
From now until Sunday, if you can find the time
and energy to use, if you will make the calls for
dispensations from the Karmic Board to allow into
embodiment only spiritually evolved souls, it will
help the Earth tremendously.
Then, of course, there will be the great need for
calls for these incoming souls because, as you see,
they will be more advanced spiritually than their
parents. If the advanced lifestreams are given the
preponderance of the vote, there will not be
enough sufficiently illumined parents to guide and
guard them so We will have to ask for purification
and illumination of consciousness in the homes
into which these “new” children come. I thank
THOUGHTS ON FIRST GOOD FRIDAY 61
you so much for your interest in this very im­
portant matter.
Now, this morning, as your attention has been
turned to our blessed Jesus and to Myself, I bring
to you Our love and gratitude for your depth of
feeling, your magnificent harmony and for this ex­
quisite force-field. It is a lovely thing to be wel­
comed and the welcome in your feelings which you
have given to those of Us Who are ministering
to you, makes possible the radiation We pour to
mankind everywhere today. Thank you and good
morning!
o Qn oQddredd
IflaufiJ U
Sary
c17lotker o| ^-edut
June, 1954
(On: Importance of developing power of concentration to hold
“Immaculate Concept" for self and others; Mary's offer to help
us hold "Immaculate Concept" for each other; Mary's petition to
Karmic Board for mercy to incoming lifestreams.)
6
TIELOVED children! How long has each one
± J of you been a child of My Own heart, a part
of My every thought and feeling and consciousness1
How long have I loved you, watched over you and
held for you that same “Immaculate Concept’’ that
I was privileged to hold for the Beloved Jesus
many centuries ago.
In the Initiations through which I was privi­
leged to pass before I was given the opportunity of
accepting the role of the Mother of the Beloved
Jesus, I had to prove before the Karmic Board, the
great Lord Maitreya and the Spiritual Assembly,
that I was able to hold the concentrated Image of
His Divine Being. This I had to hold, no matter
what the pressure of energy might be, directed at
Me from within or without. For three long hours
at Inner Levels I held that concept! Every kind of
pressure, even from the Elohim, was directed into
My mental and emotional bodies. This was an at­
tempt to divert My attention most subtly, even
into other constructive activities af life and light,
65
66 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
which would cause Me to relinquish that perfect
Image, required to be held by Me during the en­
tire period when I bore the Master Jesus. This
also had to be held during the long years after His
birth, awaiting the hour of His trial and His ulti­
mate victory.
I have been chosen to come to you to ask you,
among other things, to endeavor to develop a
power of concentration upon one activity of the
Sacred Fire, one exercise, one spiritual develop­
ment, until you can carry it into form through
thought and feeling. The Brothers \yhom you
have invited from the heart of the Teton are re­
quested once in every twenty-four hour period, to
meet together and report to your own Beloved
Master Saint Germain upon your progress, and
upon Their association with you. Then, counsel­
ling with Them, Saint Germain endeavors to give
Them the assistance They require to bring into
your worlds individually the radiation and the
pressure of good which is the gift of the Teton.
This is given you in return for the gift of your
light offered in co-operation with die Ascended
Masters, to bring forth from the Cosmic Law gifts,
grants and blessings to life. The one (almost
unanimous) report to Saint Germain from the
Brothers concerning you was that there is a need
for more consecutive concentration by each
student.
The eagerness in your hearts; the sweetness of
your souls; the earnestness of your spirits ( when so
IMPORTANCE OF CONCENTRATION 67
many new activities enter into your conscious
minds), cause you to flit from one delight to an­
other. Now I am going to ask you to endeavor
(with my assistance if necessary) to concentrate
your energies for just a little time upon the de­
velopment of reverence and gratitude for the gift
of life. Endeavor to concentrate upon the feeling
of reverence toward the Master Presences and the
Beings and Powers Who carry that light and an
extreme devotion to the God of all life. Make an
earnest invocation that there may be revealed to
you (without the slightest question of a doubt)
the specific reason for your individual being. If
you can concentrate upon this lesson well and
learn it, you will go home richer in spirit, more
peaceful in heart and be of much greater service
to Those of Us who live but to carry the Light to
all mankind.
In My activities at Inner Levels, I work with the
Elementáis. In Our Temples We teach them how
to embody form and the Elemental becomes the
form of the flower, the form of the grass or of the
blossom. His power of concentration determines
how long that blossom, that flower, or other mani­
festation will remain in the physical appearance
world as a blessing to life. In the beginning it is
difficult for them to concentrate their sweet, small
energies, for they mirror first one form and then
another. Their form changes with every passing
activity which their vision contemplates. Beloved
68 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
ones, you are in much the same condition men­
tally and emotionally.
Through My momentum and power of concen­
tration, it is my desire to bring to you the pressure
of My energy and whatever assistance My life-
stream can offer. I bring this to help you draw the
Immaculate Conception of your own Godhood in
that same glorious design that was cut out of the
Universal Light by Helios and Vesta when you
first came into being. I will help you to hold that
Christ Design, enabling you to pass the Flame
through your own feeling world, until the hour
when your flesh—obedient to the thought and
feeling form of the “Immaculate Concept" held in
your consciousness—manifests the perfection of the
Christ Estate. Then you stand revealed the Master
Presence for that, beloved children, is your su­
preme destiny!
There are millions of souls about to incarnate in
the coming year and many of them have a karma
of great weight. The physical bodies they will
wear will be fashioned out of the elemental sub­
stance which they have used life after life and
age after age. Heavily charged with discord, that
substance will not be wholly comfortable for them
to enter. Therefore, as the great Karmic Board
meets this night, it is My joy and My privilege to
petition the Council on behalf of every lifestream
who is to incarnate this year. I shall ask that the
destructive karma accumulated through the ages
may be consumed cosmically and that each one
IMPORTANCE O F CONCENTRATION 69
might come into embodiment in a form of dignity,
beauty, harmony, purity and balance. I am asking
for your assistance and for the energies of your
own individual and collective worlds on behalf of
these incoming spirits. I have asked the Angels
Who are part of My Spiritual Court to draw those
souls who are to incarnate this year, or who will
try to secure opportunity for such incarnation, into
the atmosphere over the Teton. I have told you
elsewhere, that for every three who endeavor to
secure a body, two are denied and one receives
form. There arc some three hundred million
such lifestreams hoping to secure Earthly embodi­
ment. Through such opportunity they hope to
develop and master the control of energy and vi­
bration; to finish their long journey upon the
planet Earth; to write their names in the Book of
Life and to enter the Immortal Sphere of God-free­
dom. From those of you who are already aware of
mothers with child, I ask special assistance as Our
petition is presented to the Karmic Board. Ask
that the karma of these individuals may be at least
mitigated and that no lifestream be forced to come
into embodiment in a distorted form or without
full use of all the faculties of mind and conscious­
ness.
Each of Us in the Ascended Master Octave is
dedicated to some particular and specific activity
and service. Individually and collectively, as you
develop and mature, you also will find yourselves
specializing more and more. You will find your-
70 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
selves drawing the energies from primal life, qual­
ifying them with a specific radiation to bless life.
Thus you become specialists in the radiation of
healing, purification, illumination, education, pre­
cipitation and all the other various activities which
will benefit and bless the race. In order for you to
develop and mature these faculties which enable
you to draw forth that primal substance, passing
the energy of your feeling world through it and
giving it a specific God quality, you must have the
characteristic of spiritual concentration. In order
to gather a momentum of any quality to be used as
a specific blessing to the race, life essence must re­
ceive a rhythmic charge from the feeling world
which is the qualifying agent of each lifestream.
If you should choose to stay all day with the
presiding Master of that day,* you could ask that
particular Master to assist you in qualifying those
energies in your own aura with His quality and
power of radiation. Thus you can become ac­
quainted with the various Masters’ radiations and
become sensitive to the pressure and direction of
each specific Ray. This will signify to you which
•E ach of the seven days of the week receives consecutively
the radiation of each of the Seven Chohans of the Rays, iV .
Sunday, El Morya; Monday, Kuthumi; Tuesday, Paul the
Venetian; Wednesday, Serapis Bey; Thursday, Hilarion; Friday.
Jesus; Saturday, Saint Germain. In this regard, it would be
very helpful to the student if he would try to wear at least
something in the color of the Ray corresponding to the Master
of the day. This helps to keep the individual reminded of the
concentration he is endeavouring to hold. (For further informa­
tion on above, we refer you to our Book "T he Seventh Ray".)
IMPORTANCE OF CONCENTRATION 71
Master Presence is radiating through you at any
particular time. Students upon the Path who have
passed through the metaphysical stage of develop­
ment, must come to a place where they recognize
vibration in itself and are not required to depend
upon form for confirmation of the heart acceptance
of the Master Presence. This requires great bal­
ance, beloved ones, and it requires a great stillness
in your heart. It also requires the silence of your
lips and that you “tell no man.”
Spiritual pride is one of the most subtle of the
tests as well as one of the most subtle of the sins
manifest in individuals who are walking the path
above the mass mind. Spiritual pride is often
manifested in using the lips to convey to others
private heart experiences which should be pon­
dered and developed within the self. Through ra­
diation these should be made manifest in tvorks
and not words. I say this with very great kindness,
beloved ones, because in the beginning of spiritual
development your inner faculties are very tender.
They are like the first shoots of a plant above the
surface of the Earth in the Springtime and they
require the protection of great wisdom and solici­
tude. I tell you, no one loves the growth, the de­
velopment and expansion of your own light in the
unascended realm as much as yourself. In enthusi­
asm, in spiritual zeal, or subtle pride, when you en­
deavor to share newly experienced ecstasies, you
not only lose the benefit within yourself but you
arouse jealousies and unhappy feelings in others.
MEMOIRS OF BEl.OVED MARY
72
These often keep a very promising 'shoot” from
developing and maturing to a point where your
words need not confirm your spirituality but
rather, your very being and radiation, the very
perfume of the developed quality, radiation or
gift is manifest to all.
I, Myself, passed through that test when the Be­
loved Gabriel spoke to Me. I shall never forget the
hour of His coming when He conveyed to Me the
Truth that through My body would come the
physical form of the Beloved Jesus, who would be
The Messiah. It was required of Me to tell no
man; to ponder this confidence and to keep it in
My heart. I did this for many, many months. Even
after the birth of the Baby; even through Our
flight into Egypt; even through His early grow­
ing years, though the pride of a mother might seek
to tell (even in confidence) the priests of the Tem­
ple that they should be careful of such a sacred and
beautiful Baby, the wisdom of the Law was such
that I could not do this. I could not subject His
tender Self to the energies that would be unleashed
were My lips to even intimate that which I knew
within My heart. Joseph and I often talked to­
gether about this as We watched Hini play but
We told no one else. Jesus told you, from within
His Own consciousness, He drew forth the remem­
brance of His Own great Guru, Lord Maitreya.
He, Himself, told no man! He grew and truly-
waxed strong. When He had returned from His
visit to India where He had received from the Di-
IMPORTANCE OF CONCENTRATION 73
vine Director those certain currents and those cer­
tain affirmations which were required to set Him
free, it was not necessary for Him to speak! He
was the Christ! John the Baptist proclaimed it
and all the men and women of spiritual strength
in Judea knew it!
Then another great sin, another most subtle ac­
tivity attacked Him. This was the subtle type of
sin that destroyed the Temple of Atlantis and
Lemuria—spiritual arrogance. The arrogance of
the priesthood who, versed in the “letter" of the
Law (having lost the love of the Law through their
spiritual superiority), helped to destroy the Christ
manifestation to all outer appearance. So it is in
the life of every man. He progresses up the Path;
comes out of the darkness into the Light; accepts
the Masters and walks forth. Then the subtle tests
endeavor to destroy that for which he has labored
for ages. May the God of Light and Life keep you,
each one, humble in your knowledge, as you re­
ceive more and more understanding of the Law.
May you have a greater and greater comprehension
of the powers that act in the Inner Realms. As you
begin to draw forth through your own body those
miracles and marvels of the manifestations of
Light, may your humility increase; your love in­
tensify; your selflessness manifest; until there is
nothing between you and the Ascended Christ
Presence at the hour of your complete Victory.
Then your Ascension is at hand!
74 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
As the Great Ones are now bringing the be­
loved incoming souls before the Karmic Board, the
Lords of Karma have chosen to stand while the
Lady Masters, the Beloved Meta and Myself are
also drawing here the prospective parents of all
those who will be privileged to bring these chil­
dren into birth. As they stand thus and as I send
My call to the Karmic Board, may I request that
you please join with Me in asking for the relief
and release of these lifestreams from karma of ev­
ery kind before they come into embodiment. I
shall now make My petition to the Karmic Board,
which you might care to hear:
f “Lords of Karma! Beloved Ladies and Gen-
men of the Karmic Board! I, Mary, Mother
of the children of Earth, who fashions the
heart of every lifestream that takes embodi­
ment, stand before you now on behalf of
those about to take incarnation within
this twelve-month period. I have stood in
the Sacred Heart Temple with these spirits.
I have looked upon their karma builded
through the ages. I have fashioned with My
own hands, out of the very best of the es­
sence which the Body Elementáis could offer,
the Sacred Heart of each one. I say to You,
O Merciful Lords of Love and Light, the gar­
ments which they must wear are not fitting
for gods and goddesses! They are not fitting
for beautiful, spiritual beings who, within
the course of this next eighteen-year period,
IMPORTANCE OF CONCENTRATION 75
will endeavor to set free the Lord of the
World, Sanat Kumara.
The mistakes and sins of many ages have
been written deeply into the energies of
their etheric bodies and into those flesh gar­
ments that would be woven by the Builders
of Form within the mothers of the race. On
behalf of these spirits about to take embodi­
ment—these who had the spiritual honor
(during the Month of May 1954) of stand­
ing before the great Sanat Kumara Himself
and in My Own Presence, pledging the three­
fold Flame of Life a vow of obedience—I
petition You. As they have taken that
vow and as a balance for that voluntary bend­
ing of the knee, the humbling of their pride,
the acceptance in the freedom of their inner
bodies of the existence and presence of the
Spiritual Hierarchy, I make the request this
night for good, whole, clean, pure flesh
bodies for these children. I ask for bodies
with eyes too pure to behold iniquity; with
lips which will speak only words of love and
light; with limbs firm and strong; with
bodies, living temples through which blazes
love and light; with brains well balanced to
receive the directions of the Christ Self;
with every organ in its perfect place and in
perfect functioning order.
I ask this in the Name of life and in the
Name of the Ascended Jesus Christ, I am
76 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
willing to offer on the altar of the Karmic
Board whatsoever of My personal energies,
whatsoever of My time, whatsoever of My
very Self is required, to pay any balance that
you do not find within their acceptance of
the vow to serve Sanat Kumara!
Great Lords of Love and Light! The incom­
ing children are the hope of tomorrow. Give
them garments that they may occupy in ease
and peace! Give them garments sensitive to
their own Holy Christ Selves, that the Christ
Self through them may take full command
from the time they are born!
Give them, O Great Lords of Life, the
fullness of the Mercy of Kwan Yin!
Oh, Beloved Goddess of Opportunity,
newly-crowned Queen of Heaven! I speak
to You as My Successor! I ask opportunity
for the incoming souls—opportunity for
each one! Grant Thou this as My last gift as
I close My reign and as You become the
Shining Queen of Heaven. Oh, Portia!
Portia! Child of Love! Child of Justice! I,
Mary, speak to You! I rest My case in Your
sweet hands!”
Thank you, beloved ones for your assistance. As
the feeling of devotion which has been charged
with My energy fills the atmosphere, let your own
sweet energies, coupled with My humble petition,
do what they may! Thank you and good morning.
cAn cÂddreôô
h
®pI0vpî>fHarg
cïflotl\er of ^eôuô
October 1, 1954
(On: More about holding "Immaculate Concept"; Description
of "Compound", "Sleepers' Realm" and Earth-bound; Mary's
petition to Great Karmic Board for assistance to these Realms
and assistance for incoming children) .
7
EARLY beloved and blessed children of the
One Eternal Godl How grateful I AM to
be the bearer of good tidings of great joy into your
worlds and into your consciousnesses; to bring a
“lift” to your sweet spirits and hope to your worlds
for accomplishment which has stirred the hearts of
the Heavenly Hosts.
Beloved ones, do you know what it means to be
the bearer of good tidings? Do you know what it is
to have lips that always carry words of comfort,
confidence, hope and faith, as well as feelings that
always convey the radiation of grace and blessed­
ness so that everywhere you move upon the panet
Earth the world is the richer for your presence?
That is the state in which We abide—a most com­
fortable one, a most glorious and happy one! In
this way one becomes a “Grail” through which the
unsullied spirit of the Universal First Cause may
flow and radiate forth to bless life everywhere.
I am always so grateful to the Source of Life—
the great Father—Mother God of the Universe, for
79
80 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the opportunity of being an outpost of His gra­
cious Self and of His gracious Complement. I ask
always that through My radiation, Being and
world, I may magnify the Lord and magnify His
gifts to the people of Earth or to the Inner Realms
where I abide; magnifying always His gracious­
ness, His kindness, mercy and His Ever-Presence.
For this I was bom and have Being and for this
do I yet live to minister to those who wish to know
the Lord. In that “knowing,” touching the hem
of My garment, they find freedom—freedom of
mind, of body and of spirit.
Today I bring to you My life, in the Name of
My Lord, the glorious Healing Flame from the
Heart of the Universal and the mighty peace that
does surpass the understanding of the mind, as well
as all of those virtues of which you so much desire
active possession, that they may be a spiritual nour­
ishment for you. I am giving you these blessings
since you no longer desire to magnify the things
of the world (the shadows of human creation) but
desire at last to magnify the magnificence of your
Presence and the glory of your Divine Plan, stand­
ing revealed God-Master, in dignity and in light.
Beloved ones, for many, many ages My particu­
lar evolution has had to do with the power of
holding the "Immaculate Conception" as the
phrase is used in the Orthodox world. I would
like to discuss this briefly before I share with you
some of the magnificent activities taking place to­
night. I ask you to be My guests, entering into
MOLDING “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT” 81
these Inner Spheres and there with Me use your
own sweet energies to help Us in Our Cause. So,
if you will hear with Me as I digress for a moment
to that subject which is dear to My heart, I shall
proceed. If you choose individually to apply this
same power of concentration, it will bring you
great freedom!
Your consciousness is your work-room; your
consciousness is the ‘‘cup" which is created by
everything that you know and experience in the
mental, emotional, etheric and physical worlds.
Beloved ones, many of your consciousnesses are
like homes that have not been lived in for many
years. You know what it looks like when the chairs
are shrouded, the cobwebs gather and when the
various solidified concepts and thought-forms of
the years have settled down. The consciousness
then just externalizes that which you have ac­
cepted by use, over and over again. Now as a
Mother I come to you to give a complete house­
cleaning; to sweep out all of that solidified con­
sciousness of distress, limitation, age, financial
lack and to help you set up a beautiful new home
into which you may invite the Christ Spirit. Will
you help Me now in this joyous experience?
Long before I took the Ministry in which I was
to mother the beloved Jesus, I had to learn to con­
trol the power by first creating a perfect thought-
form from Universal light. I had to learn to ener­
gize that thought-form by the rhythmic release of
love to keep it alive so that it did not disintegrate.
82 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Then I had to protect it by My Own etheric radia­
tion from the intrusion of external forces that
would seek to destroy it. That substance is very
pliable, easily returning to the unformed unless
it is held by the mental body and nourished
rhythmically by the feelings. So through many,
many ages in the great Temples of the Elementáis,
first I learned and then I taught how to create a
perfect form. I learned how to pour the feelings
once an hour rhythmically (or once a day, whatever
rhythm was set up) into that form. Then I learned
how to hold a heart around it—that heart made
of etheric substance so that the thought-form could
not be dissolved by pressures from without. At the
time when We were given the opportunity to vol­
unteer to help in the great Christian Ministry, this
training enabled Me to apply to Lord Maitreya for
the great honor of becoming the Mother and the
Guardian of the Christ. In a previous address I
have told you in detail how I was required to hold
the "Immaculate Concept" (the perfect Divine
Form) in My mind for three hours, nourishing it
by My love and by My feelings. During this time
there was directed at Me from the Great Initiator,
every conceivable concentrated activity, to try to
take My attention, not only by disturbing pres­
sures but by the things / loved most; anything to
draw my attention away from the holding of that
Concept. At the end of that three hours, I was
given the opportunity to become the Mother and
Guardian, the Protector of our blessed Jesus.
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT” 8 3
After His birth, many might think that I could
then have relinquished that strong guard—the
"Immaculate Concept” of that body, of that mind
and of those sensitive and beautiful feelings. How­
ever, it was even more necessary then to hold the
guard. You see, in the infant and very early stages
of growth, the Holy Christ Self of an individual
is not yet in enough control of the vehicle to hold
the guard for him. Then, you know, I was un­
ascended! People look back through the ages at
the “glamour” of yesterday and this human tend­
ency has made the early Christian Dispensation
take on an unreal aspect. Yet when We lived;
when We walked along the dusty roads; when,
with gratitude We refreshed ourselves from the
cold well; when We protected Ourselves as best We
could from the heat of the mid-day Sun, We were
people like yourselves, with consciousnesses and
senses open to the mass mind. In those days, We
saw many, many activities of the outer world,
many distresses of the flesh and of the mind from
which the West is now protected by the progress of
civilization. We saw many dying with leprosy,
bodies withering away on every hand and poverty,
the like of which you do not see in the West today,
although you still see it in India and the East. All
of these things were before Us, not only before
Our eyes but Our constant attention. In that type
of world We lived, Joseph and Myself, and en­
deavored to raise This Boy without allowing Him
to register this discord in the very sensitive vibra-
MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
84
tory action of His consciousness. If such imperfec­
tion did register on His consciousness and His
feelings connected with it, then that imperfection
would be externalized as a soiled spot on the gar­
ment of One Who must remain immaculate in
order to draw the Cosmic currents necessary, when
His Ministry began.
When We went into Egypt We were subject
there, dear people, to a great many experiences
which tested Our faith and power of concentration,
even beyond that which We knew in Our natural
home environment. Early one morning, I remem­
ber walking out of our small dwelling and looking
toward the River Nile where Jesus was wont to
play. I saw that beautiful Boy in close proximity
to the largest crocodile I had ever seen! The
great creature's mouth was open. For a moment
I confess I thought that perhaps this was the end
of Our dream and yet I did not allow myself to
let fear register—at least not for more than an
instant! Then as I stood, do you know I realized
that creature was smiling—a great, toothy grin
and I was relieved. I did not even go down to the
water to suggest that My Boy come back to a place
of comparative safety. I do confess, however, that
I remained near the door, as I looked upon them,
holding the thought of His God protection until
finally the crocodile went back into the water and
swam away. My dear Son, feeling nothing unusual
about the experience, waved to me and went on
His way.
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 85
When one has a Cosmic mission, it is difficult
to keep from over-solicitude and yet maintain that
terrific Inner concentration and fidelity to the
“Immaculate Concept", It was difficult to see that
Small Child going through the rigorous disciplines
at Luxor. Those of you who have been in Egypt
know something of the heat of that country during
the day and know how carefully young children
are guarded, especially during the hours of high
noon when the Sun is at its zenith. Yet, from early
morning until well into the afternoon (when the
Sun was setting) I had to abide outside those Tem­
ple Courts waiting for Him. Sometimes, when My
Son would come out, there would be beads of per­
spiration on His forehead and deep circles under
His eyes. He was taking disciplines from which
full-grown men and women have shrunk—yet it
was not for Me to interfere. It was My obligation
to give Him complete freedom and yet, in that
freedom, to hold the Concept in which there was
no shadow of fear.
When We recognized that He had received His
Own illumination, then Joseph, Jesus and I found
the trinity of action in magnifying the Lord of
Life, magnifying the power of God in every cir­
cumstance—even the smallest one—whether it was
the requirement of bread for our table or the
beast of burden to carry us back to Jerusalem and
Judea. We always put it completely into the hands
of Our Lord and, together, a small family unit, we
magnified the Lord's Presence in the homely
86 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
things of living. Jesus grew in that sense of com­
radeship with the Father-God and in a great sense
of relaxation in His Ever-Presence. It will be of
such tremendous benefit and help to you if you
can come to that same sense of “rest in action”, in
a realization of the Presence of God, ready to help
you in your smallest—your slightest requirement,
as well as in the greatest crises of your life. Re­
member, dear children, the comradeship and
friendship between you and your own individual­
ized God Presence (the "Mighty I AM”) estab­
lished in the homely tasks of life, build the
momentums for you. Thus, in the great crises, you
already have the faith, the fidelity and the con­
stancy of His Mighty Self. I never laid a table,
never swept a floor, never planted a flower without
so doing in the realization that it was the life of
God that enabled me so to do and I always did it
to the glory oTCod! Everything We did all
through Our lives was done in His Name, to His
glory and by His power. You, too, do everything
by His power but you must continually remind
the outer conscious mind of it. When you so re­
mind yourself enough, you will come to realize
that God is not far off but is the animating prin­
ciple of your very selfl
Now, tonight, we have another opportunity to
address the Great Karmic Board. I have been mak­
ing a petition to Them for some time for the
assistance to be given in-coming lifestreams. You
know, I am concerned with the creation of the
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT” 87
heart—the Sacred Heart—in which lives the Im­
mortal Three-fold Flame of Life within each physi­
cal form. The body itself is drawn around that
precious Sacred Heart. At the Inner Levels, we
have a magnificent Temple of the Sacred Heart.
In the Springtime, after the individuals have been
chosen by the Karmic Board to incarnate within
the next twelve months, all these souls come to
Our Temple. We have a beautiful ceremony of
benediction and blessing. Then, together, each
soul and I take the best part of the elemental
substance that the soul has to its credit and We
fashion the heart which will be the Chalice for the
Flame in the new Earth body. Then these indi­
viduals wait in the Inner Realms until they are
called for re-embodiment. Within the year con­
ception takes place on Earth for each one and they
come into the world of form in physical birth.
I have done this for many, many years and I
would like to say that the' souls who have been
free in the etheric body, enjoying the sojourn in
the Heavenly Realms of such perfection, do not
enjoy being encased again in the imperfect
physical elements which they have earned. Some
of these are very, very low in vibration and the
physical bodies into which some souls are called
to incarnate would not be fit habitation for
animals, as you know. It has always been a source
of sadness to me to witness the high birth-rate of
those who are manned, mentally retarded and
those who are without the full use of their mem-
8 8 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
bers and faculties. I have asked over and over
again for some way by which the Karmic Board
and Great Cosmic Law could allow Us to free
souls from this necessity of coming back into such
terrific distortions of mind and body.
In July of this year (1954) I again presented
My Petition of which I have just spoken. Now,
in accord with the magnificent activities taking
place at Inner Levels in which your energies
are joined with Ours, I am going to ask for assist­
ance from the Karmic Board again tonight. I
would like to take you now—just for a little while
—into die Inner Realms. It rests you and it is also
a training in the projection of your consciousness
from place to place. We are quite amazed how
clearly you can picturize that which We describe
and how vitally you act in those Spheres to which
We bring you.
Last evening, Beloved Scrapis Bey brought an
Initiation to each of you. Some of you sensed it
deeply and some of you sensed it only in your
inner bodies. Up to this time, the extent of your
participation in the great work of the Universal
progress of the System had been to call for the
granting of Petitions and to make up various
Petitions yourselves. Now the Great Sanat Kumara
has said that you have achieved enough spiritual
maturity to be able to contemplate the activities
at Inner Levels—activities that must be set into
motion by your calls, to grant such a Petition.
After the address of Our Beloved Lord Michael
HOLDING “ lMMACULATE CONCEPT” 89
the other evening and your rendition of the songs
and decrees, together with the magnificent calls
for the releasing of dispensations, the Great
Karmic Board said: "We shall test these people.
Tell them exactly what is involved in this Petition
for which they ask and let us see the enthusiasm
with which they will continue in their endeavor,"
We all waited with bated breath to see whether
the glamor of an abstract Petition would appeal
when it meant actual work and effort. I am happy
and grateful to tell you that your splendid re­
sponse has brought smiles to the Karmic Board,
happiness to Our hearts and great hope to Us for
the fulfilling of these Petitions.
I would like to tell you that, in answer to your
earnest calls, twelve beings from the "Compound"
have applied to enter the Halls of Karma and take
their judgment. These are individuals whose rebel­
lion was so great that they preferred to remain in
the Compound rather than take the suggestion, the
discipline or the necessary application to work on
their own creation. They have remained there in
a state of sullenness, previously refusing to enter
the Halls of Karma for—how many years—I would
not tell you!
The Messengers from the Karmic Board are
very beautiful Beings. They wear the deep royal
purple of Saint Germain and have emblazoned
across the breast the Scales of Divine Justice in per­
fect balance. They wear die seven-pointed crown
upon Their heads and They carry with Them
90 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Scrolls bound in purple, which Scrolls are the sum­
mons to the soul to appear before the Karmic
Council. These Karmic Brothers, as Serapis told
you last evening, meet every soul that passes from
the body. The conscious chela who steps through
the veil without even stopping to look back, us­
ually takes the Scroll immediately from the hand
of the Messenger. These are the workers who wish
to get their new assignments and get back into the
activities of a new Earth embodiment as quickly
as possible.
Then We have the great Realm of the "Sleep­
ers". When people pass from the body in an ex­
hausted state, they go out into this beautiful
Realm in the Higher Octaves. This Realm was
provided by die Great Law as a place of rest be­
tween embodiments for certain lifestreams who
needed it. Some people who go out in great
shock; some who pass out through violence and
a great many who go out in war conditions, en­
ter this Realm for a period of time. When We
go into this Realm in consciousness, just a little
later this evening, you will see the tenderness
and solicitude with which the Angel Devas watch
this Realm of the “Sleepers". These Devas pour
Their sweet anointing upon the bodies of those
who are there and when those individuals awaken,
they are given the "vacation period” of which
I spoke before. In due time (there is no hurry)
the Karmic Messenger will come and these souls
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 91
will receive their call to appear before the Karmic
Board.
In the Jower Realm of the “Sleepers”, you will
find those who are seeking escape. As you descend,
you will see how the bodies, rather than being
life-like as if just in rest and sleep, become more
like the atrophied stone in color and there is a
resistance to an endeavor or attempt to be awak­
ened. We shall ask you to help us assist these
tonight.
Then We come to the Earth-bound, to whom
there comes once in every year one of the Karmic
Messengers Who offers the Scroll of opportunity.
The Earth-bound have consistently refused this.
They are not vicious enough for the “Compound”
but they are those who, either by lust, appetite,
hate or physical love, are very enamored of the
Earth and It’s people. They exist on the magnet­
ism of the living. Many of these Earth-bound souls,
after they find that they get no attention from the
living, begin to lose interest for nearly always they
are strong egotists. When they continue to pass
unnoticed in homes where they have been usually
the predominate figure, the magnetism weakens
and they can sometimes be coaxed into the Halls
of Karma.
Tonight, the Karmic Board has asked if you will
go with us in consciousness into these Realms and
use your energies to make calls for these types of
individuals, trying to get some of them to arise and
take the Scroll from the Cosmic Messenger. If you
92 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
will just look for a moment into the Halls of
Karma, you will see the magnificent doors are open.
These Messengers are coming down the steps in
beautiful purple garments, carrying these Scrolls
of light. Each Scroll is an opportunity for some
individual to meet the judgment of his own life-
stream; be assigned to a period of expiation of
his errors made on Earth and given a chance to
receive an understanding of the Law in some
School or Temple at Inner Levels, free-will being
the "order of the day”. These being unascended,
We have thought that your energies might do for
them that which We cannot do Ourselves.
First We shall enter the Realms of the "Sleep­
ers," for these are the least difficult to be handled.
You will see that each one is lying on a lovely
couch and that Flame flowers that never die, adorn
the pillow. These flowers become blankets of
roses, gardenias, violets, etc., covering these sleep­
ing forms. As you watch in this Realm of “Sleep­
ers," you will see the Devas Who guard them,
rhythmically pouring out the vials of light over
their bodies. From time to time a soul will arise
from one couch or other, as you arise from sleep
in the morning. It will attempt to get it's con­
sciousness focused and be led by some Angel
Deva to the Realm where it will spend its “vaca­
tion period". We need not be concerned particu­
larly with these, because they are pliable and qui­
escent. After a few weeks or months with their
HOLDING “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT” 93
loved ones, they will willingly take the Scroll from
the hands of the Karmic Messenger.
Now let us go down to those who have "willed"
themselves to sleep. They have willed themselves
not to awaken. Here you will see a sight that re­
minds you of an Egyptian sarcophagus in which
the body lies, the form itself looking like stone.
There is no warmth there and only the flicker of
the Flame within the etheric body keeps them from
the “second death”. Many have passed into the
“second death” from this Realm. Now if you will
please sing with sincere feeling, your “Opportunity
to Call” to these deep, deep "Sleepers” who arc
sleeping the sleep of escape, We shall see if they
will arise. Around them in circular form, stand die
Karmic Messengers with Their Scrolls and tonight
We shall be grateful if even one comes from this
Realm of rebellion.
(Audience arose and sang "Opportunity to
Call”, following which Beloved Mother Mary
called to the Karmic Board). “In the Name of the
Beloved and Holy Jesus Christ, I call to You, O,
Karmic Board! I call to You on behalf of these,
the "Sleepers,” to accept the energies of these unas­
cended beings here tonight. Set this energy up in
a rhythm every hour until it becomes a Flame,
carrying the feeling of how marvelous and won­
derful it is to serve life. Let that Flame pass
through their consciousness until Its enthusiasm
stirs each of these souls. Then let them come forth,
magnify their Lord, fulfill their destiny and be-
94 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
come God-free”. I thank you for your assistance
and your calls, beloved friends. I would be so
grateful if you would keep up this call individually
and collectively when you have opportunity, until
there is not one soul who is not eager to face his
Lord and fulfill his destiny.
Now, beloved ones, as the great Karmic Mes­
sengers wait in that Realm of the "Sleepers”, We
expect activity there tonight. This mighty Cause
of Saint Germain is FREEDOM and the impris­
oned Flame within the hearts of these “Sleepers”
desires fulfillment. Flow would you like to be in
a stone prison for a million years, especially when
you had a destiny to fulfill? Yet that etheric con­
sciousness, so rebellious, so unwilling to proceed,
refuses to allow opportunity! Tonight I speak di­
rectly to the Flame in the heart of each of the
"Sleepers”: "In the Name of the Ascended Jesus
Christ and in the Name of the unascended man­
kind in this room, I have gathered friends for you
—friends who will breathe on your heart flame.
There is not one lying prone in this Realm tonight
who shall not stir and receive opportunity to
expiate karma".
Those of you who asked last night (in your feel­
ings) how Orthodox people can expiate karma out
of the body, (when in the outer consciousness they
do not know the use of the Violet Flame), will
be interested to know that it is through the estab­
lishment of Temple worship in the Inner Realms.
There they use ordinary prayer force and devo-
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 95
tional singing. This is utilized by the Devas to melt
away the karma in this Realm until these people
come to a knowledge of the Sacred Fire. These
focuses of worship established in the Astral and
Psychic Realm are voluntarily entered into by all
individuals who have not earned their Ascension.
Just as you go to church, every hour if you want
to (or perhaps you only wish to go on Christinas
Eve or Easter) so do these people, through free-
will, have access to these focuses. The more karma
they bum out through entering into the service
there, the quicker are they free to go to a higher
Realm and the better Earth life will they receive
when they incarnate again. It is just as it is here.
The groups are provided and some just cover the
minimum of the Law, while some avail them­
selves of every opporunity. The latter progress
more quickly, because through individual appli­
cation for the good of the whole, the soul rises
higher. When the Karmic Board assigns a soul
to the Sphere in which to dwell, It also assigns a
minimum of service, just covering the Law; but
those who are alert take a greater length of time in
service and they proceed more rapidly. It is quite
individual—the same as it is here. (That question
was in your minds last evening and Beloved Serapis
asked Me to answer it for you.)
Now we shall pass to the doors of a place that
has frightened a good many—the "Compound.’’
Here are those who choose no part of God. These
individuals refuse to accept the summons of the
% MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Karmic Board but were too vital and developed to
become "Sleepers". These have been "corralled"
so to speak, in the Universe. Here they continue to
grumble over their lot although they are ap­
proached rhythmically (as I have said) with the
invitation to appear in the Halls of Karma. These
individuals know full well that they have quite a
balance to pay to life and feel they may escape
by refusing to so appear. As Serapis told you,
the Law is that you cannot take a new Earth body
until you have passed through the Halls of Karma;
until you have expiated a certain amount of your
creation; then you are assigned to a new Earth
life.
Tonight We are going to try something that has
never been done before. We are going to call the
blessings of the Great Central Sun on the beings
in the "Compound” and upon the Earth-bound. I
am going to ask you to join Me in a deep heart
prayer that those individuals come forth volun­
tarily and walk in dignity before the Karmic
Board, finding that Tribunal not so fierce as they
had anticipated. Then let them get busy in re­
deeming their discordant creation of the past.
Would you please take the song to the "Great Cen­
tral Sun" this evening?
I speak directly to those in the "Compound” and
the Earthbound: "Beloved, you who have refused
to accept the invitation of mercy from the hands
of the Angel, We love you! We are calling you
now to your redemption. We are calling you forth
HOLDING "IMMACULATE CONCEPT” 97
to opportunity. For the Earth which once was
sweet to you; for the planet which you enjoyed;
We ask that your individual lifestreams assume the
responsibility of joining Us as ladies and gentle­
men; join Us in redeeming this Earth; in redeem­
ing the Elemental Kingdom. There is nothing to
fear; there is nothing to hate; there is merely
opportunity to use those very great faculties which
you have developed through many ages. We have
opened the doors of the "Compound" tonight with
love and We invite you to accept your invitation
from the hands of these Devas, in the Name of the
Ascended Jesus Christ, in the name of unascended
mankind who have loved you enough to make this
call”.
Thus do the three Realms—the Realm before
birth, the Realm of incarnate life and the Realm
after death become onel When that veil is sosevered
that I may speak to you from above—you who are
the bridge to those who are below—it has greatly
hastened the progress of the evolution of this
System.*
Now We turn to the other side of the scales
• Editor's Note: At the Christmas Class, December, 1954, all
of those in the "Compound" as well as those in the "Sleepers'
Realm" came out voluntarily, took their Scrolls from the waiting
Devas and went before the Karmic Board of their own free-will.
This allowed the complete dissolution of the "Compound" and
the returning of the "Sleepers' Realm" to its original intent. i.e„
to be a place of temporary rest for souls needing such assistance
lietween embodiments. From now on. souls will only be allowed
to remain in the "Sleepers’ Realm'" for one year at a time
lietween physical embodiments.
98 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
which is My activity of life. We come here to the
magnificent experience at Inner Levels, after the
lifestream has passed through the Halls of Karma.
As Beloved Serapis told you, a group is examined
and assigned to a Sphere whose vibratory action
is comfortable, a city atmosphere or a country
one, whatever the person likes best. There the
individual abides; proceeds for a certain time mak­
ing new associations and affiliations: advancing
rapidly or slowly according to bis own free-will,
even as mankind do here. For instance, two souls
are bom the same minute; one accelerates to the
point of the Ascension in one embodiment, while
the other retrogresses so that it passes out less ad­
vanced than it came in.
The time of sojourn at Inner Levels is deter­
mined by many things. (I cannot tire you to­
night by too much detail for, much as you enjoy
Us, your senses do weary.) Those of you who have
served the light have foresworn your time in these
Realms, at least for the most part. We are speak­
ing now of the “average” man.
These people make new friends and in time the
etheric body, mirroring that which is around it,
gradually throws off the appearance of age and
takes on the appearance of those who have dwelt
for a longer time in that Sphere. Here they abide
until the time comes when the same Karmic Board
draws these souls before It. When this Board feels
that a sufficient amount of karma has been dis-
HOLDING “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 9 9
solved and enough time of rest for the souls has
been given; when a sufficient amount of spir­
itual nourishment has entered the lifestream; then
come the Messengers from the Karmic Board sig­
nifying an opportunity for a new physical birth.
These Messengers come in the most exquisite light
blue—the "Mary blue” which some of you love
so much. The Messengers carry with Them the
Scroll with the blue upon it. Here again it is
somewhat difficult for these souls to accept the
Scroll and leave those with whom they have been
having such a lovely and beneficial time. Partings
are always difficult and the Inner Levels are happy
places. Yet, sooner or later, when the Angel in
blue appears, the soul knows it is time for re-call;
time to go back again into the Earth life.
Early in the new year, right after Beloved Sanat
Kumara brings down the thought-form and goes
to Shamballa to design the pattern for the year,
then the Board of Karma begins to select the life-
streams who must incarnate in that year. At the
same time, individuals who want to incarnate
(who are volunteers) present their petitions. The
first few months of the year are engaged in pre­
paring a possible influx of lifestreams for re-em­
bodiment. A sifting and sorting goes on and the
ones are given opportunity to come in who can
best serve the light pattern of the Thought-form
for the year. In Divine justice others also are al­
lowed to come in because of the work they have
100 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
done at Inner Levels and the karma they have ex­
piated. They have earned this opportunity. There
are those sent in also who have the most difficult
karma to balance.
Then comes My opportunity to bless these souls
through the creation of their new heart forms.
Just a few months ago, some three hundred mil­
lion souls who sought re-embodiment, performed
a voluntary act in the Temple of the Sacred Heart.
They stood before Me and all pledged a vow to
Sanat Kumara, each of them ofFering to do the
best they could to serve Him according to their
light. Since that time (May, 1954) We have been
allowing some of these souls to take embodiment
and a great many are yet to take bodies. It is for
these remaining ones that I am going to ask the
Karmic Board for help, to see that they get better
bodies than they have earned.
Now, with your kind indulgence, we will turn
our thought to the Karmic Board and I shall make
the call. If you will sing to Them, it will amplify
My Petition (Audience sang the song "Great Kar­
mic Board”) .
"Beloved Karmic Board! Beloved Portia! and all
Those there assembled! I, Mary, speak to You
on behalf of the 1ifestrearns about to incarnate
upon the planet Earth. I ask because this year,
every lifestream who is to incarnate voluntarily
took a vow to serve Sanat Kumara well. For this
reason I ask that some special dispensation be
HOLDING “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT’’ 101
granted for the purifying of the physical sub­
stance which the Body Elemental must use to cre­
ate a vehicle. See that no more children come in
this year in distorted forms, feeble-minded or un­
able to provide the soul with opportunity to ful­
fill its vow. In the Name of Justice, they must
have a mind and brain consciousness through
which the soul can function and bodies with facul­
ties through which the soul can work. I ask in
the Name of Life, in the Name of Mercy, in the
Name of God, for the purification of the substance
in the bodies of the parents. This substance makes
up the flesh garments of these children about to
come in and the elemental substance gathered by
the Builders of Form must be purified with what­
ever intensity and power of the Sacred Fire is nec­
essary. I ask You to see that every soul gets a firm,
whole, perfect mind and body through which to
function.
Beloved Portia! As the Goddess of Opportunity,
this call should come close to Your heart. Can
You not grant opportunity to these souls who have
offered to serve the King of the World”?
Portia speaks: “Beloved Mary! Opportunity is
in My hands. Opportunity is now Yours to help.
I give this request into Your keeping. You are
a Mother, Mary, and You know that the concep­
tion of the child, held in the mind of the mother,
is a great factor in the molding of that form within
her body. You know, Mary, the appetites of the
102 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
parents have a great effect upon the Body Ele­
mental of that infant. Why do you not call to
Gabriel Who gave you the ''Immaculate Concept"
of the God-child? Ask that His flaming substance
enter the consciousness of every mother with child
and every woman about to conceive. Coupling
Your “Immaculate Concept" with hers, you hold
that immaculate pattern in her mind and that pur­
ity in her feelings. Life will respond, Mary—it al­
ways has and it always will!”
Mother Mary: “Thank you, Beloved Portia. Be­
fore this night has fled, Gabriel shall stand beside
every woman who has conceived and every poten­
tial mother. We shall direct that “Immaculate Con­
cept” into the mind. Is there not something that
can be done, Blessed Queen, for the elemental
substance the soul has earned?"
Portia answers: “Beloved Mary, Our Lord Maha
Chohan (the Great Intelligence governing all ele­
mental life) will no doubt command that life back
into its original purity. He gives the first breath.
Why do You not ask His assistance at the time of
conception rather than birth? Then, with His giv­
ing this assistance, coupled with My Beloved's
(Saint Germain) Violet Fire, let Us see what can
he done”.
Mother Mary: “Beloved Portia! I am Your
Sister and Your Servant! Great Queen of this New
Age, tonight these unascended lifestreams have
gathered here and listened to Us converse one
with the other. I am asking them to send their
HOLDING “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 103
love to You as well as to the entire Karmic Board
through their simple song 'Immaculate Concep­
tion'; then to send that Immaculate Conception
into the mind of every pregnant woman and all
who shall conceive this year.” (Audience sings)
Mother Mary continues: “We offer this en­
ergy to You, O, Karmic Board. It is the life of
unascended beings. Looking deep into their
hearts, You will see that everyone here, without
reservation, desires that every incoming child shall
be free, clean and perfect. Now, Portia, as We
stand, I am going to speak directly to Gabriel’’.
Mary speaks to Gabriel: “Beloved Gabriel,
Friend of the ages, You Who came to Me in My
hour of greatest trial, will You accept the commis­
sion suggested by Beloved Portia, Queen of the
Karmic Board? Will You come with Me to the side
of every woman who will give birth and each father
who guards that incoming child? Will You help
to project and sustain the “Immaculate Concept"
in each mind?"
Beloved Gabriel: “Hail, Mary, full of grace! The
Lord is still with Thee and always blessed art
Thou among all women. I am Thy Servant, as is
every Angel, Deva, Cherubim and Seraphim in
Heaven. Queen of the Angels, I am Thine to com­
mand!”
Mary speaks: “We thank You, beloved Gabriel.
Now as these blessed ones again sing that song of
the ‘Immaculate Conception' let Thy mighty
Flame go forth, north, east, south and west. Let
104 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARV
every Angel of Birth, every Builder of Form be
alerted and every parent receive the pressure of
that contact.” (Audience arises and sings)
I speak directly to the parents now: "Parents
of this race—every one, everywhere! As there
comes into your keeping a soul that has vowed to
love God, accept the visitation of Gabriel and the
love of Mary and bring those children forth in
light!”
Is it so strange to participate in activities that en­
gage the subtle senses? NO! Some sweet day in the
not too far distant future, you will work in this
way all the time; flashing from planet to planet un­
der the direction of some great Cosmic Being,
giving your vital energies where they are most re­
quired at the moment. You see, you are no longer
Earth-bound—you are quite free. Today you func­
tioned in the Astral Realm, in the Psychic Realm,
in the lower Heavens, and in the Realms of birth
—yet your physical bodies did not move from
this room. This is a very great service which you
rendered here (which will go on all through the
night and this week-end) and besides that, beloved
ones, it is giving you certain training. I am hoping
you can accept it as reality. I am hoping that you
can know tonight that some soul has come out
from the “Compound” where life has not been
known to progress for hundreds of thousands of
years! Try to know that some soul will rise from
a couch of almost petrified consciousness because
of your calls and that some being will be set free
HOLDINC “ IMMACULATE CONCEPT" 105
from the Earth-bound Sphere. Try to realize that
somewhere, when a baby cries, its body will be
more perfect and its mind more clear because you
were here tonight.
Now I am at liberty to tell you that for each one
of you here, at least one soul will be released from
these various places spoken of above—one for one!
Think what that will do for the “Compound”;
think what it will do for the Realm of the “Sleep­
ers”; think what it will do for the Earth-bound;
think what it will do for some soul otherwise des­
tined for a lame body who will now walk in a
straight perfect form and have a good mind, be­
cause you chose to enter this room! If you never
did another tiling in this embodiment, you have
served well tonight.
Thank you for your kind acceptance of My
words in your feelings and I shall say “Adieu" in
the Name of My Own beloved Son and Myself.
Good evening!
c 4 h czAddredd
h
Iflnwii iMarg
c JTlother o} ^.ec>ud
Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 25, 1954
(On: Importance of building "forcefields" through group
activities; Benefits to incoming children through decrees; More
on holding "Immaculate Concept"; Finding of old mill which
became first focus of Christian Dispensation. . . .)
8
J J ELOVED friends of My heart! I bring to you
ID tonight all the love and devotion with which
I once cared for a small child. T o you I bring
the blessings of this Holy Season as We open the
magnificent Cosmic currents which have flowed
through your conscious endeavors and dedicated
"forceficlds” as an open door to bless all the sons
and daughters of God who know not yet the way
to the Father’s Throne.
Your blessed hands, your sweet hearts and your
gentle spirits hold open the doors to the King­
dom. Have you thought of that? Have you real­
ized in its fullness what it means to magnetize
those spiritual currents of energy from above
which form a “forcefield”?Through your heartbeat,
beloved ones, flows the primal substance of life.
Through free-will you have chosen to give that life
to the magnetizing of the Angelic Host, the Cheru­
bic Beings, the Seraphic Kingdom, the Cosmic
Masters and Devas and Those individual conscious­
nesses Who dwell in what has been called for cen-
109
110 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
turies, "The Kingdom of Heaven”. These Beings
do not concentrate Their energies Earthward ex­
cept through “conductors". Such "conductors" are
consecrated unascended lifestreams who magnetize
the Masters’ energies and form the open door
through which blessings tremendously subtle and
currents extremely vibrant enter into the atmos­
phere and the mental and feelings worlds of man­
kind. These unusual benedictions could never
reach the slower vibrating action of the outer con­
sciousness if there were not embodied "step-down
transformers” in the form of individual conscious­
nesses who are yet a part of the race.
So, each one of you whose vital energies, week
after week, month after month, year after year, have
magnetized the Presence of the Eternal God-free,
has formed a jewel of blazing light in the heart
of this great metropolis. From the center of this
blazing jewel has flowed forth to the millions of
people who live here, blessings, purification and
spiritual upliftment of which your dear outer
selves will never be conscious until you stand with
Me in the God-free Realm. Then you may look
back at the record which has been written by your
own lives and see the pure energy that has re­
placed the effluvia of those who yet know not how
to control thought and feeling.
Magnificent indeed is the consciousness ofan em­
bodied chela who can even believe in our Presence
in this Universe and most blessed are they who, in
believing, weave the substance and energy of their
IMPORTANCE OF "FORCEFIELDS'’ 111
own lives into an activity which is of benefit to the
race. Do you know how many children are bom
every twenty-four hours within the hundred mile
radius covered by the center of your "forcefield”?
Do you know how many bodies are fashioned by
the Builders of Form? Do you know how many
come in with much clearer sight, more perfect
hearing and better use of their faculties because of
your constant, unbroken, rhythmic calls? Do you
know how many children do embody in each year
with vehicles and envelopes through which the
Holy Christ Self can externalize Its Divine Plan,
where otherwise they would have been born idiotic,
or in all manner of distress? Is it not worth the use
of your life energy, woven into invocation, decree
and song? Some day, in your God-free estate, you
will look with joy upon those firm bodies and
those strong lifestreams (those who are to be the
builders of the new era) and you will know that
your calls and your invocations, morning after
morning, have made possible conditions by which
a soul is allowed opportunity to fulfill its Divine
Plan in dignity, with head erect, body firm and
pure, and mind clear. Otherwise, these same life-
streams would have been destined to live a whole
life through in darkness or confusion.
0 , beloved ones, I have fashioned with My Own
hands the substance of your very hearts. I have
stood each year before all those who are to embody
in that twelve-month cycle; I have seen the pitiful
elemental substance charged with impurity and
112 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
imperfection through the mistakes of past lives.
Therefore, I can tell you what a mercy it is to these
individuals when you call forth the Violet Fire for
them. As they hold the best substance they have
earned through millions of years of living and offer
that to me for a heart—well, as I look upon it and
think: “Is this the BEST that soul can offer;”—
many times that Violet Fire rises from your groups
at your call and passes through the substance, even
as it is held within the trembling hand of the soul
itself. Thus, instead of an impure garment, mercy
and the kindness of embodied lifestreams make it
possible forUstogive them added opportunity—an
opportunity for redemption and service that they
would not otherwise have earned. I tell you, then
does My heart swell with a Mother’s pride for in­
carnate children who can and do draw and wield
the Sacred Fire, sending that Fire forth imperson­
ally on behalf of lifestreams whom they do not
even know exist! It is one thing, beloved, to work
for those for whom you feel a close heart-tie, but,
to work impersonally for the great body of man­
kind—that shows the Cosmic nature of your own
developed Causal Body and that is the hope of this
shadow planet (earth) which We are endeavoring
to fashion into Freedom's Start
Beloved friends of love and light, as the beloved
Morya and I close Our year (1954) as Sponsors
for mankind, I would like to thank you personally
for the opportunity of recording through your ener-
IMPORTANCE OF “ FORCEFIELDS” 113
gies in this “forcefield”, a few of the personal
memories of My experiences following the passing
of My Son into His Eternal Freedom. This gift
which you have enabled Me to give to you by
opening the door through your love, your magnet­
ization and your attention, you, in turn, will give to
mankind. The ‘‘Memoirs of Mary” will become
the Thanksgiving gift of your blessed selves to
the Earth. I am grateful indeed for this oppor­
tunity!
During the ministry of the Beloved Jesus, as I
have told you briefly, My mission was to hold for
Him the “Immaculate Concept” of His Own Divin­
ity. In preparation for this, I had trained many cen­
turies. In the Elemental Kingdom, between em­
bodiments, I had taught the Elemental Beings how
to hold the pattern of a flower, a tree, a shrub . . .
I had passed through the Initiations enabling Me to
hold a concentrate of thought which no force or
distraction from within Myself or from without,
could cause Me to dissipate. Previous to earning
the right to become the Guardian and the Mother
of the Beloved Jesus, I stood (as all do who are to
render Cosmic service) before the Great Initiator,
Beloved Lord Maitreya, Who is also the Sponsor
for your magnificent city. He was die Teacher and
Guru of My Son. As I have told you, for three
hours at Inner Levels, I held the Divine Image of
the Holy Christ against every conceivable directed
force which was endeavoring to dissipate that Pat­
tern. At the end of that Initiation, I was given the
114 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
right to embody and await the coming of My
beloved Son.
Throughout My Earth life, as you know, from
the age of three on, My whole Being was dedicated
and consecrated wholly to God and I prepared for
and awaited the hour when My mission would
begin in earnest. The Beloved Gabriel (Arch­
angel of the “Immaculate Concept") in His great
kindness, promised to come and flash again into
My outer consciousness the reality of the mission
I was to fulfill and a picture of the perfection of
the Christ. Gabriel had promised to give Me this
assistance when I would require His help the
most. You all recall the coming of that Great One
and the confirmation of the benediction of God
which took place before Jesus’ birth.
During the entire life of Our Master, both Jos­
eph and Myself remained one-pointed in the hold­
ing of that “Concept” for Jesus. His senses, you
will recall, were most highly developed—his power
of sight, his power of hearing, his thought and
feeling. Naturally, He was the most sensitive in­
strument embodied at that time. Through those
senses, He could draw either the greatest light or,
through connection with the appearance world, He
could draw also the shadow which would blot out
the final Mastery and victory of His Ascension.
So We began from very, very early childhood,
teaching Him the story of the "Immaculate Con­
cept” and teaching him to magnify only good. On
the other hand, in every experience where He was
IMPORTANCE OF "FORCEFIELDS" 115
in a position to encounter discord, We nullified
that by saying together: "Now, we shall not mag­
nify this. Instead, We shall magnify the power of
God—the power of good’’. He grew up in that at­
mosphere; that Tadiation of magnifying the GOOD
and giving no power, no seme of reality, to evil.
This momentum took Us through even the passing
of Joseph; it took us through the years until Jesus'
public ministry was to begin. Then Our ways
parted (outwardly), and I devoted Myself to a
constant “Novena” (you might say); to holding
for Him that pattern of the victory of life over
death itself.
Ofttimes during those years when He and the
disciples were engaged in the public work, I went
up to Bethany. There with Mary and Martha I
enjoyed a certain peace in the simplicity of the
country living. On the outskirts of Bethany, We
found an old mill that had been used to grind corn
in previous daysT I loved to sit there and weave
garments for beloved Jesus, tablecloths, napkins
and things of that sort. Once each day I would
find Myself walking up the small but grassy mound
to a great flat-topped rock. There I would spend
some hours in deep and earnest communion with
the God of Light. There I made the application;
there I built the momentum and the pattern on
which My Son was to ascend to His God and Mine,
in the presence of many people (about 500).
In those days, I did not know what I builded,
but I sent My love and My gratitude to the God
116 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
of Light and in that rising of the energy from My
heart (on what was to become later the famous
“Hill of Bethany”) I builded the very Ascend­
ing Flames which were to become the victory of
your beloved Master and Mine.
During this period, We thought very little about
the time AFTER the victory of the Ascension be­
cause (as I have told you), We were trained one-
pointedly upon holding the “Immaculate Con­
cept” for Jesus. No thought of “self” entered Our
minds; nor was there any thought of what We were
to do to maintain and sustain the Christian Minis­
try or the faith of the disciples. This may seem
strange to you, but it would not seem so if you
had been trained in a Cosmic Current and knew
that the victory depended upon the holding of
your “Immaculate Concept”; not only for the One
you loved but for an entire race through that
One.
As I would walk on that grassy hillside, part of
My mind recorded this old mill. It had fallen into
some disrepair and yet the memory of that old
mill was to stand Me in good stead . . . for when
John and I walked from the Hill of Calvary to
Bethany—O! that old mill came to My mind as a
possible place of refuge and solace. It seemed to
Me it could be a focus for the disciples and My­
self until We could find what We were to do and
how We were to do it, through the connection
which we had with Our beloved Jesus.
IMPORTANCE OF ‘‘FORCEFlELDs” 117
Well do I remember Holy Thursday! After the
disciples and the Master had finished the “Last
Supper" and had gone to Gethsemane, the other
ladies and I came and gathered together the linen
cloth which I had woven and folded it carefully,
knowing in Myself that within a day that cloth
would enfold the body of My yet vital, shining
and beautiful Son! In a napkin We carefully
wrapped "The Cup" and gave it to Joseph of
Arimathea for safe keeping. That Cup was to
travel far and before this week-end is spent, I shall
tell you of that journey. The Holy Thursday eve­
ning, after We had straighted up the room so
that it might be returned to the landlord in per­
fect order, I engaged in the most heart felt prayer
of which I was capable, for the next day was to
bring to Me the greatest trial of My life. We shall
not dwell on that day because it has passed vic­
toriously.
After We had given to Mary and Martha and
those who were to anoint Jesus’ body, the frankin­
cense and myrrh (carefully kept, mind you, from
the time of Jesus’ birth in a stable many years
before), John and I descended the hill into Beth­
any. There again I held the vigil with the help of
the beloved Maha Chohan. I held that vigil
through those days while the soul of Jesus, sepa­
rated from the body, passed through the Psychic
and Astral Realms and prepared for the glory
of His Resurrection Day.
118 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Then, strengthening the disciples with My Own
faith and with that Inner Light which came to Me
from the Master, We began to prepare that old
mill for living quarters. James, John and Peter
white-washed it, fixing the walls and the roof.
Here we established the beginning of the first
Christian monastery and cloister, you might say.
Here, off and on, We abode for some thirty years.
Here, after the Resurrection morning, every day for
forty days until the Ascension, the beloved Master
Jesus came and spoke to the disciples and Myself.
Because of this, after that glorious triumphant
victory on Bethany's hill, there were happier and
more consecrated lifestreams who entered into
that home at the foot of that hill. Then we all
prepared to magnetize the living Presence of Jesus
and from that simple focus to direct those mighty
currents of the risen, victorious Christ through the
mental and feeling worlds of all mankind. The
story of that service I shall tell you . . . .
Beloved ones, a Dispensation which governs an
entire race at the changing of a cycle of time (as
it does in each 2000 years)—such a Dispensation
is builded on the energies of many and not just
one! Even My beloved Jesus, with all the light and
poiver of His Presence, could not have rendered
that service alone! Beloved Saint Germain, as He
now draws the currents for this New Day, (through
these group activities and these Sanctuaries), is
performing the same service that the disciples and
1 rendered in that day. He is doing this by mag-
IMPORTANCE OF "FORCEFIELDs" 119
netizing those currents of nourishment for His
New Era just as we kept the entire Christian Qis-
pensation going thru the 2000 years of Jesus' reign.
It is not the work of one man, one woman, nor
even of one Avatar or one Christ. It is the com-
bined woven energies of many consecrated life-
streams.
Think you well on the word “consecrated”. It
means the complete dedication of your mind, your
spirit, your soul, your thought, your feeling and of
all the organisms of your flesh, to drawing forth
that nourishment which is to be the sustaining
power for a Dispensation that will grow in mag­
nificence and glory long after you, humble folk
like ourselves, have folded your Earth garments
around you and passed from the stage of life.
If you could look back at these simple efforts
to create a garden and to make livable that habi­
tation, if you could have looked at the toil-worn
hands and the consciousness of those of Us at Beth­
any, you would be amazed that there ever could
have risen the magnificence of the Christian Dis­
pensation. It is only the glamour of the ages,
beloved ones, that has woven around Us a magnifi­
cence that We did not then possess. We were hum­
ble folk, as I said, like unto yourselves. Now,
sometimes feeling that you have not the worth of a
task, let Me say to you that the number of those
who NO W stand around the mighty Ray of Saint
Germain are far greater than those who stood
with Us through the ridicule, through the persecu-
120 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
tion, through the crucifixion and through those
days afterward, when We built the foundation in
love for the Master Who had come to Us, Who had
persevered and found FREEDOMl
So, this Thanksgiving morning, on behalf of
My Beloved Son; on behalf of Myself; on behalf
of the children that come to Earth garmented in
whole and perfect bodies, I say: "God in Heaven
bless youI" Good morning.
o $ n czAddreôô
h
î&
tlavtb lîîarg
p o th e r o j 3 e d u ô
Nov. 26, 1954
(On: Importance and benefits o f group activities; Joy o f meeting
Jesus on Resurrection morning; Return of Jesus to Mary, John
and disciples after Resurrection; Establishing of focus o f light
which became foundation of Christian Era).
9
G~T\ ELOVED ones, do you know what it means
J-J to a city to be given the opportunity of four
successive visitations? Also, do you know what it
means to give to Me the opportunity to draw from
the energies of My world and from those Temples
of the Sacred Heart where I serve, those Cosmic
currents of Life and Light Eternal? Through your
"forcefield”, these can then energize the mental and
feeling worlds of all the people in this great me­
tropolis, as well as their physical bodies and the
etheric garments.
At Lourdes, as well as at Fatima, there were visi­
tations but We were able to say very little, since
We dealt with the consciousness of children who
could not grasp the deeper Law and who were not
prepared and ready to understand more than the
beauty of the actual visible Presence. Yet, through
these Visitations, We were able to anchor into
those localities a sufficient Cosmic current which
has remained to this day and has made possible
the healing and the freeing of lifestreams that
123
124 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
have been encompassed for centuries in limita­
tions of their own making. It is time, then, that
you who are entrusted with Our confidence, with
Our very Presence and with Our instruction,
should accept in the deepest redesses of your feel-
ing, those currents of energy which We bring with
Us and leave as a permanent river of living force.
This surges forth from the heart-center of the es­
tablished "forcefield" and, with a far greater efficacy
than the thin stream of energy We have been able
to draw forth at the Healing Shrines, it can be
directed into your hospitals and asylums, into your
homes and into the consciousness of your people
everywhere.
Can you realize for a moment the intelligence
that is within energy and the power of magnetiz­
ation that is within your heart? I would like you
to think of it for a moment. Within your heart is a
magnet and that magnet sustains life within your
physical body for as long as your Holy Christ Self
desires to have manifestations in this world. A con­
stant flowing stream of electrons from the Great
Source of all life flows into your heart with such
rapidity that there is no outer means by which
it can be photographed as yet so you might see your
own Silver Cord. However, in the near future,
there is coming a much greater sensitivity in the
photographic world and many of the magnificent
things of which We have spoken will be recorded
and confirmed to the sight of man. This stream
of living light that pours from your Electronic
BENEFITS OF CROUP ACTIVITIES 125
Presence into your heart is what you have lightly
called your “lifestream”. It is exactly that—a river
of living, breathing force and intelligence. It is
primal life unqualified, awaiting the command
of man's free-will to become for him and every
one whatever he shall decide to make it. This
primal life is already qualified to obey; it is the
elemental substance that has taken the command
from the Universal to obey the creative principle
of man and out of that primal life you have woven
your chains and your limitations, even as you
have woven the glory of your Causal Body. You
have also woven the magnificent momentums upon
which We depend to draw mankind again “out of
the pit” into die glory and the victory of their
own God-free estate1
As this life flows through you, it is yours to com­
mand. For the most part, according to the caprice
of the moment, your thoughts and feelings qualify
it and the invisible inner garments which you
wear, your sphere of influence, your aura and your
Causal Body are a conglomerate mass of the
thoughts and feelings of your daily life. Many
men have come under the influence of evil. Con­
versely, many other men and women have come
under the influence of a good man or a saintly
person and on die impetus of that one individual’s
magnetized and qualified life, have lived a holy
life themselves. In time, they returned to their
God-estate. Your individual sphere of influence
is important—more important than you realize!
126 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Some of you, humble of heart and sweet of spirit,
feel that the individual self matters little but your
sphere of influence and your radiation are all We
have u/ith which to work in this world of form.
The quality of your sphere of influence can be
changed by your conscious application and the
conscious qualifying of this beautiful primal light
through your feeling world. Then the hem of your
spiritual garment becomes an influence for good
wherever you move among mankind. Even
though you never used your lips to speak at all,
just the radiation passing out from your body
becomes a healing, raising power and you become
“the leaven in the loaf”.
Now as you join together in a constructive activ­
ity, what happens? All of your individual life-
streams combine, drawing rivers of life flowing
from the Presence; all of them join together
and, descending, make a great, mighty river of
force, magnetized by the heartbeat of each one of
you who chooses to come to these magnificent
classes and give of your energy. Then as you make
invocation to the Great Masters of Light and speak
Their Holy Names in word, in song, even in silent
visualization, your magnetic heartbeat draws
around the river of force (made up of all those
who are within the room) a tremendous current
from each great Being Whom you drew by thought
and feeling. It is exactly as if a little rivulet that
had trickled down from the mountain-top by the
very first melting of the snow, was caught up then
BENEFITS OF GROUP ACTIVITIES 127
in the great, mighty rush of the mountain torrents
when the glaciers melt. That tremendous added
impetus then sweeps down into the valley, carry­
ing thé currents of energy and fertilization to the
plain.
The magnetic power within a group of un­
ascended beings to form an open door to the
Ascended Masters' Realm, cannot be overempha­
sized. Beloved Jesus said: "Where two or three are
gathered together in My Name (nature), there I
AM in the midst of them”. Every group of dedi­
cated lifestreams, whether they are orthodox, meta­
physical, occult or spiritualistic, who are sincere
and deep in their desire to draw forth greater good
from the heart of the Universal, magnetizes and
draws these Cosmic currents from these glorious
Beings. Those currents then flood out from the
center of the '‘forcefields”, north, east, south and
west. According to the intensity and power of the
group, the feeling and sincerity of the leader;
according to the energy that is released and the
power of concentration among the assembly, is
mankind blessed cosmically and bathed in that
radiation of purifying essence.
Your individual sphere of influence, your indi­
vidual aura, is a conglomerate mass of good and
evil. When you join together to form the “force-
field” for a Cosmic activity, for the radiation of the
Ascended Masters and for the magnetization of the
Angelic Host, the portion of your personal sphere
of influence that is not constructive is muted for
128 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the moment. The portion which is constructively
qualified is emphasized and the great Angel Devas
and Builders of Form together weave from the
assembly a magnificent pattern. That pattern con­
ducts the blessings of the group and the blessings
of the Beings Who gather in the atmosphere above
the meeting place, back into your homes, into
your blessed families, into your worlds and into
the consciousness of those who need such assist­
ance.
Beloved children, in My position I hear so
many calls for help. If you knew the prayers that
come up to Me from this metropolis alone, you
would realize how grateful I am to be given this
open door and opportunity to bring to your great
City this gift of My energy—My life—the river of
light which comes from My Presence. To these
are added the blessings of the beloved Jesus and
of the beloved Angelic Host Who work with Me.
We direct those currents through your "forcefield”
and then allow that to bless and bless and bless
life everywhere. Each one of you who has come
and given of your own life to make this oppor­
tunity possible—each one of you is dear to My
heart and My gratitude shall flow to you eternally.
Will you please remember each evening to con­
sciously direct back into your own city, your own
Sanctuary and your own home, a mighty ray of
intelligent life and light substance from this Class?
This ray of light substance can duplicate diere the
same activity which We draw forth here and make
BENEFITS OF CROUP ACTIVITIES 129
it active in those portions of the country from
whence you have come. You see, as much as you
will personally do for yourselves, you spare Me
in die use of My energy. Then My service can be
given you in more powerful currents for the puri­
fication of your inner and flesh bodies.
Will you do something for Me tonight? Will
you please accept the Presence of My humble Self
in your midst with at least as much faith as the
pilgrims at Lourdes? Will you accept, deep within
your heart, that healing momentum which has be­
come the hem of My garment? That garment
covers this entire building tonight and each one
will take as much or as little as he or she may
choose, according to the power of his or her ac­
ceptance. As My gift of Thanksgiving to you, ac­
cept the substance of the radiation of One who has
been your Mother for countless centuries. Accept
this into your blessed minds, your bodies and your
worlds. Then, beloved children, as your gift to
the Beloved Jesus this Holy Season, will you
specialize in drawing forth some particular quality
to become the spirtual garment which you wear?
You can charge your glorious Tube of Light with
a particular essence so that as you move through
the great metropolis, as you rub elbows with man­
kind, some of the virtue, consciously drawn forth
by yourself, may be absorbed by them. Then the
"hem of your spiritual garment” will be a blessing
and an uplifting power to life everywhere. This
130 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
would be the greatest of the gifts of the Season to
One Who gave of Himself so long ago.
Now, turning My attention and yours back to
those early years, let us pursue that sweet story of
a long ago era. It still lives in My heart as though
it were yesterday and lives in many of yours too.
Many within this room were part of that drama;
part of that joy and part of the heartache. You
were part of the despair of Calvary and part of the
glory of the Resurrection morning. Deep within
your etheric bodies there vibrates the memories
of a majestic Being Who walked across Judea and
left an example for all mankind that has never
been equalled, even down to this present day.
Now we come to celebrate His birthday and it is
for Him that we prepare our physical and inner
bodies to give Him the gift of our very selves, even
as I gave Myself to Him before I passed through
the gates of birth; before I was to know physical
embodiment.
When the Initiation was complete at the close of
the three hours on Calvary's hillside, the Beloved
John and I walked together down that hill, as I
told you, leaving the others to perform the final
rites, preparing the body for entombment. We re­
turned to Bethany—to that blessed Bethany where
Jesus and the disciples and I had spent the few
private moments of His ministry. Here the gar­
dens smelled sweet in that Spring, the birds sang
beautifully and there was no great press of the
public—no tremendous need and pressure. There
BENEFITS OF GROUP ACTIVITIES 131
in the quiet of that place I asked the beloved John
to leave Me in the privacy of My own room two
nights and one day. I was given fresh water and
fruit and closing die door 1 sank to My knees in
the deepest, most heart-felt prayer. In that prayer
1 followed the soul and spirit of the beloved Jesus
through those hours until We would be assured
that the Resurrection was accomplished. At Luxor
years before, both Jesus and I had taken the Initia­
tion of the suspension of the breath and the so-
called removal of life from the body. We had
passed through this Initiation victoriously. How­
ever, as I have told you, it is one thing to accom­
plish that Initiation in the protection of a Retreat
where the Ascension Flame blazes bright and
strong, the Cosmic Masters and the Hierarch
standing guard over the body . . . Here there is
no breath of evil and there is the vital fire of life
and confidence. Here the twelve Masters Who
stand watch over the body during that period,
have already mastered the Initiation Themselves
and They know that LAW IS LAW. They have
the confidence, faith and conviction which comes
alone when you KNOW die exactness of the Law
dirough the use of your own life energy. It is
quite another thing indeed to accomplish such a
mission amidst a roaring mob, a mass mind and
consciousness which embodied all of the vicious­
ness of the Astral and Psychic Realms, 'determined
to destroy the greatest manifestation of the Christ
in that era. It is a different thing too to re-animate
132 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
a body that has been broken. It was for this that I
prayed! I prayed and prayed those long hours
through.
Finally, it seemed as though I had fallen asleep
at my vigil. Then through my mind came the most
magnificent, melodious voice of Gabriel Whom I
knew so well. I thought that I was again dreaming
of that first Visitation. I would recall those words
so often during the early years in Egypt; during
Jesus’ growing years; during the years of obscurity
in Nazareth—those words of Gabriel and that con­
firmation of Jesus' Messiahship would come to My
mind over and over again. So, that morning, as I
waited in My lonely vigil, again I heard Gabriel's
voice say: "Hail, Mary! full of grace”. Ah, I
thought, again I am recalling from memory the
words of that Blessed One.
However, the words changed then and He said:
“Beloved, Your Son is risen! He is victorious!
The tomb has been shattered! He inhabits His
body and I come—the Announcer—the Protector
of the ‘Immaculate Concept’—to bring to You the
first word of the victory!”
Then I fell to My knees and the tears of grati­
tude streamed down My face. The room was
filled with light and the fragrance of the lily. The
magnificent Presence of Gabriel stood there be­
fore Me and as the brilliant light in the room
softened, there also stood My Son—clothed in the
same white robe that I had woven for Him!
BENEFITS OF GROUP ACTIVITIES 133
At great moments, you know how the little
things magnify—for instance, the ticking of a
clock, in your day. In Mine, I kept tracing My
own stitching in the hem of His garment and I
looked, as a Mother would look, at the line and
contour of His face. I looked at the delicately
arched eyebrows, the beautiful deep-set eyes and
I said within Myself: “NO! My hope has not con­
jured up this image: it is not the result of My
wishful thinking.”
Then Jesus reached out His hands and spoke to
Me saying: "Mother, it is II”
I rushed toward Him, thinking to kiss the hem
of His robe, but He raised Me to My feet. We
walked over to the window together to see the
sun—the great Symbol of Life and Light which
We had worshipped and loved as an outer mani­
festation of God, the Father and the Holy Mother.
Jesus remarked about the beauty of the morning,
but My eyes were so wet with tears I could scarcely
see the light of the sun. I looked upon His hand
and saw that there was yet the stigmata—the mark
of the nails.
I said: “Son, in the resuscitation, why have You
left this imperfection on your hands?”
"Mother”, said Jesus, “For authenticity’s sake.
Not everyone has the discerning eye of a Mother
and would know Me by the line of My cheek­
bone, the length of My hand or by the light in
My eye. Those Who know have said ‘Wear yet
the marks upon Your hands and feet until You
-
134 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
have come to Your disciples and those who love
You’. However, we shall remedy this in time.”
I said: “Thank GodI At least the deep marks
of the thorns in your forehead are gone”. He just
smiled.
Then, as time was fleeting, Jesus said: “I must
be upon My way, beloved. I must now go to the
disciples—to Mary, Martha and Magdalene, to
Peter, James and John; for they are still sore afraid
and the sight of death has shaken them to their
roots".
Before leaving, however, Jesus asked Me: “Be­
loved Mother, do You wish to come with Me when
I go into My glory or will You remain yet awhile?”.
"Son”, I answered Him, “What is Thy will?”
He said: “Mother, the magnetizing of the great
and mighty Cosmic currents for the Christian
Dispensation can only be done by an unascended
being. There is much yet that I can do and a
Dispensation has been offered Me that, after My
public Ascension, I may come to You and to John
for thirty years, giving You instruction that has
not yet been written, if I can call upon You for
that sacrifice”.
“Behold! the handmaiden of the Lord” I said.
“Willingly, joyously, beloved, if it were a thou­
sand years, I would stay. I Who have lived these
thirty-three years to see Your victory—should I
not now allow You the greater opportunity for
a few years of exile on My part?” He was pleased.
Jesus then said: “Go to the granary and I will
BENEFITS OF GROUP ACTIVITIES 135
send Peter, James, Andrew, John and Luke and
I will send the ladies who have loved Us. For
forty days we shall visit together and I will give
You some understanding of the Law. Then, after
the completion of My mission, I shall be enabled
to appear to John and You alone. One of You
must remain at Bethany until this period is com­
pleted."
This is why John remained at home when We
went to England, in order to hold that vigil and
to make possible that magnetization. This was
the same sort of activity of which I have spoken
to you concerning your great constancy of appli­
cation and group work together.
We went out then to this old grist-mill. A
stream of water flowed behind it and it was very
peaceful, very quiet there. First, they fixed a small
room for me inside the mill. Soon the beloved
Jesus came, and He was always a practical man.
I have spoken little about that practical side of
My Son but I remember well, as He looked at
the stream, He called Andrew and James and said:
"If you will dig a ditch here, you can irrigate
Mother’s garden and save all the steps of carrying
water for Her”.
I was interested at that time in herbs and I
made a lovely garden of them. Those herbs had
much healing power and did great work. Another
day, as We were standing together, Jesus said to
Peter: "Peter, this main room is too big. The
roofbeam will not hold unless you get a large tree
136 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
to support it. If you will get such a tree and hew
it, I will smooth it and We will place it in the
center of your assembly room”.
So we did. In such homely ways as this did We
make Our forty days count. We were preparing
for the separation and during this time Jesus told
Us much of the Spiritual Law and many of the
glorious experiences He had while He was free
from the body as it lay in the tomb.
On the hillside Mark kept the small flock of
sheep which Joseph of Arimathea sent us so we
might weave the garments for the men from the
wool. The lovely wife of Pilate sent us some im­
ported milking-goats and a letter asking if she
might come to visit Us.
The friends of Judas Iscariot and His family
asked if they might give us forty fruit trees, fig
and olive. We gratefully accepted and planted
them. So we lived in simplicity. In the evenings,
We would gather together and I would go over
the story of the Nativity. Then Matthew, Mark
and John would tell the story in their own words
and record it. Sometimes I would have to say:
"No, that is not exactly the way it happened” and
We would correct it. Thus We wrote the Gospels
together.
Finally, We came to the end of that period when
We had the sweetness of Jesus’ Presence so close.
The night before the Ascension He spoke to Us
and said to John and Me: “Tomorrow at dawn, I
BENEFITS OF GROUP ACTIVITIES 137
shall climb the Hill of Bethany alone. You come
with Peter and James around nine o’clock and let
the others follow.”
Jesus said to John: “Even though You were not
at Luxor, yet because of Your love and Your fidel­
ity and because You shall care for My Mother and
My flock, You shall have your Ascension at the
close of this life.”
The early morning came and Jesus walked alone
up the hill. He was like a magnet which was of
love alone. His Presence, His sweet voice, His
shining hair, His aura—all these were so power­
fully magnetic that wherever He was, even if
people were sleeping, they stirred, rose and fol­
lowed Him!
On this morning, I spoke to the boys and said:
“Watch now that the flock do not follow Him.
Let us allow Him these few hours—the last hours
which He will know alone, as a part of the Earth.
Let Him commune with Virgo and Aries, Beloved
Helios and Vesta. Let Him adore Beloved May,
the month of Perfection”.
Sure enough, no sooner had His Presence started
up the hill, than there followed the beloved who
wished to be with Him. We restrained them and
in order to keep them happy, I told them some
stories from His life. Around nine o’clock, the
remaining disciples and Myself ascended the hill.
The Presence of Beloved Jesus was already bril­
liant and shining like a Sun. So bright was
138 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the light shining through His body, We could
scarcely look upon It. He spoke no more with Us
then. We just continued to pray with Him, draw­
ing the Resurrection and Ascension Flames.
Then, on that majestic hill-top, from the very
rock where I had spent so many years in prayer,
Jesus ascended consciously in the visible presence
of hundreds of people (about five hundred in all).
After that, Jesus came once each day for quite
a while and John and I recorded what He said,
much as You receive Our words now.
Later, Saul of Tarsus came to live with Us and
had a period of recuperation, endeavoring to re­
gain his balance and his good eyesight. Many a
time Peter and He sat in the garden and talked.
Saul, endeavoring to become so humble, yet had
such a background of the Law under the Old
Dispensation, that it was difficult for Him to accept
the faith of this unlettered Peter. Many a time
I came between them to settle an argument.
James, Peter and Andrew particularly, went
forth and taught. Many came from the Romans,
many from the Jewish faith and many came from
the Gentiles. All that time We builded the radi­
ation which was to be the heritage of the Christian
Dispensation.
Finally, one day there came a messenger from
Joseph of Arimathea that His business was taking
Him to the Isles of Britain. We knew that We had
a mission to accomplish—to take the "Cup” (the
r
BENEFITS OF CROUP ACTIVITIES 139
Holy Grail) there and that story I shall give you
tomorrow.
Remembering again the sweetness and sim­
plicity of Our life together and sharing it with
you, becomes My gift to you, beloved of My heart.
Your homely daily living is building for you and
for Saint Germain the same magnetized field for
tomorrow’s world. Good evening and God bless
youI
cJln cAddredd
h
Hflnitfii iHarg
c)7lotker o} ^.eAuA
November 27, 1954
(On: Intercessory prayer; Qualifications for Healing Temples;
First Pentecost, celebration; Opportunity to carry "Cup" to
British Isles with Joseph of Arimathea. Visiting Luxor; Mag-
nitizing future Shrines.)
Nil
10
TIELOVED children of My heart, I bring you
J D tonight the vital fire of My very Self to give
to you of the substance which I have gathered
throughout the ages that have been. This has been
qualified by My Own consciousness and forms the
glory of My Causal Body. My Causal Body is the
storehouse from whence I draw forth that which
is required to answer the calls of those who need
help; the blessings so much needed by the sons
and daughters of Earth. Truly it has been said
that in the history of men’s prayers, it has never
been known for one single call to remain unan­
swered which has come up to Me since I achieved
My position of Authority.
I am the Mother of all the souls belonging to
this Earth’s evolutions and for each of these I
shall pray that they achieve the same great Mastery
and victorious manifestation as My Own.
Nothing has caused more conflict between right-
thinking men and women than the possibility of
.intercession before the Throne of the Heavenly
143
1
144 MEMOIRS OK BELOVED MARY
Father by Those Who have attained Their eternal
freedom. 1 am quite sure that the great sect who
protested against the possibility of such interces­
sion. has not fully understood the true meaning of
the Law. As I am the One called upon the most,
perhaps, by a great number of mankind to inter­
cede on behalf of the souls of men, it is the subject
with which I can deal more delicately and yet
more clearly than almost any other one.
Within your own precious hearts is the Flame
of Immortal Life streaming from the heart of your
own Central Source—God! Within your heart is
God in action and there is no power that can ever
separate you from it, here or hereafter! No fear of
eternal damnation, no requirement of creed or
intermediary has any power to interfere when the
soul determines within itself to return to God in
oneness of consciousness. Even in your unasccnded
Realm, the prayer of a good friend gives the
strength and vital essence of someone interested
in you which adds to the impeus of your aspiration
that rises to the Throne of the One Father. This
added impetus magnetizes greater release to bless
you on the return current of that energy. Then
why cannot Those of Us Who are your Friends
in this Realm, also intercede for you, just in the
capacity of Elder Brothers and Sisters; not because
of position, not because of place, but because We
are friends! We are vitally and deeply interested
in your life; interested in your well-being; inter­
ested in your development. Then why deny Us
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 145
the same right of access to the Father on your
behalf that you give freely one to another?
How often do the words “Pray for me” come
from the lips of one who is going into trial? How
often have you asked a heart-friend, a parent, a
child, to intercede on your behalf before the
Eternal? Just so, those who come in earnestness
to the feet of Mary ask her intercession for them­
selves or a friend. This will add to their small
efforts the strength and vital essence of My prayers
and calls. The plea to Me for intercession enables
Me to release all the magnetic power of those
centuries of becoming free. I am merely a Friend,
giving of My life and drawing those currents from
Higher Realms than the conscious soul of the
aspirant can yet reach.
By reason of certain applications and develop­
ments, some of Us are able to go closer into the
Heart of the Father. There, becoming impreg­
nated with the very substance of that Life, health,
vitality and fire, We return, brimming over with
the essence of Divinity. We shower this light
essence upon those who have called for help—
each of Us being merely Messengers Who embody
the One Life, the One Principle of God. Each of
Us is a Grail that carries the assistance needed
from the One Source into the world of form.
Man does not divide his allegiance to the One God
when he asks assistance of friendship. Therefore,
to you within this room who wish the intercession
of Mary I COME! Not for the purpose of worship;
146 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
not for the purpose of idolatry; but I come with
the same friendship and comradeship that you
have one for another, magnified by My powers of
greater freedom. Now, when you go forth again
into the world at the close of this class, carry this
great Truth everywhere you can—that the inter­
cession of the Saints on behalf of mankind is but
the same activity of invocation, adoration and de­
votion which you send up in group work when
you intercede on behalf of unborn children; on be­
half of those passing through the veil called
"death”; on behalf of the crippled or the insane.
Ever, ever as you grow in grace and light does
your consciousness intercede on behalf of those
less fortunate than you and your hand is offered
to help them; so also is your other hand reaching
up to Those above you. I see you are compre­
hending this quite clearly and I thank you.
Beloved children, you are given a great oppor­
tunity to serve {hi this large city—an opportunity
to become a heart-center of healing light which
can become planetary in its radiation, if you en­
dure. Many opportunities come to mankind from
time to time and to those who endure unto the end
there is given the white garment of Victory.
Why are certain places upon the surface of this
planet chosen as focuses of protection, of healing,
of purity? There are many reasons, beloved ones,
all in accord with a scientific law. In ages that
have been, there were Golden Eras when the
Angelic Host were visible and tangible to the
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 147
sight of men and God-beings who had never taken
flesh bodies, were still the recognized authority
governing the spiritual as well as the secular life
of the race. During these times, many foci were
drawn forth at the various points upon the sur­
face of the Earth and beautiful Temples were
builded. Within those Temples lifestreams were
drawn together who had an affinity for the vibra­
tory action of blessings that were flowing. As I
told you last evening, these blessings flowed like
living rivers of force down from those Temples
and out to bless the masses. When those foci were
magnetized sufficiently and when from the civiliza­
tions that reigned during those particular eras
there were drawn lifestreams who were willing
and loyal enough to guard the Sacred Fire, that
God-Being Who guarded It, then gave the Fire
into the keeping of those individuals who so quali­
fied to receive It. The priests and priestesses in
these Temples sustained the Light that was given
and It became the spiritual nourishment and focus
of balance for the people.
In the Atlantean days, right here within the
compass of your city, a mighty focus of healing
was manifest. HereT as you have been told, was
a great Temple of Light and the lesser Temples
were visible too. Mankind was able to come into
this Temple from all over the planet and receive
a certain balancing of the mind and body which
was required to maintain perfect health and to
sustain their physical bodies in dignity for as long
148 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARV
as their Holy Christ Self desired that they should
remain embodied. At the close of this Atlantean
culture, when the physical Temples were de­
stroyed, the etheric Temples remained there. The
great and mighty Dcva LIBERTY chose to sustain
those activities and currents pouring forth at Inner
Levels, as well as the blessings that poured forth
previously through the mental and physical
worlds.
Why do you think certain people are drawn to
certain locations? It is because of the great Light
which has been focused there in the past and has
become a magnet for the cities which rise in those
locations. The people in the outer consciousness
do not know what drew them.
Then come the new opportunities through the
dispensations made possible by the advent of The
Seventh Ray, of the Ascended Master Saint Ger­
main. Now the lifestreams who have been active
before in those same Temples in earlier ages, have
volunteered to re-embody. They come from vari­
ous points on the Earth in answer to the heart<all
of the soul and are prepared again to magnetize
and draw forth some of the etheric perfection
which was known in the previous eras.
Many of you have come across the oceans; you
have come from faraway places to this great me­
tropolis and here you have made your home. You
have come because of the opportunity to again
magnetize and externalize certain healing currents,
to the glory of God and Saint Germain—that
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 149
opportunity now lies within the palm of your
hand. No man or God knows what any other man
will do with opportunity but those of Us Who are
free—when We see opportunities so resting in
the hands of frail chelas, then do Our prayers
rise to the Heart of the Eternal; then do We make
intercession that you may determine to see mani­
fest and externalized, that portion of the Divine
Plan into which your gracious lifestreams may be
woven.
What do you think is required to so draw forth
a healing focus of light? It is a good question for
those who are deeply interested. Very, very many
qualities are required for such a healing focus.
In the outer consciousness, you have no concept
of the drive of energy which would be directed
toward any group if mankind enmasse had the
slightest knowledge that you had a way to allevi­
ate distress! Mankind seeks surcease from pain,
from illness, from disease and also death. Man­
kind is like a sea that has no longer the control
of the tide but rushes ruthlessly toward that which
will satisfy the need of the moment. I speak of
this because I saw My Son having to go out into
the Sea of Galilee to snatch a moment’s peace; an
hour’s sleep . . . and in those days there was not
the means of communication which would allow
the entire planet to know what He was doing.
Then, it was only the surge of local humanity.
Beloved ones! For the establishing of such
a mighty healing focus here, you will need INVIN-
150 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
CIBLE PROTECTION. Invoke the protection
of Lord Michael and His great Legions of Angels.
See Them stand around this building with Their
Swords of Flame. This protection will have to
be consciously drawn about you and your environ­
ment, long before the hour comes when the spir­
itual hem of your garment performs that first
instantaneous healing.
You will need ASCENDED MASTER DIS­
CRIMINATION—the capacity to seal the lips
against revealing either the needs or the confi­
dences of those who come for help.
The complete ABSENCE OF SPIRITUAL
PRIDE is also an absolute essential to successful
accomplishment here, lest you unconsciously be­
tray that which you do in secret behind closed
doors and draw such a surge of energy toward you
that your small numbers and frail strength cannot
yet handle.
In order to have such a magnificent activity of
Cosmic healing, there are also other requisites
which are very important, i.e.: One must be will­
ing to become an absolutely SELFLESS SERV­
ANT OF TH E LORD. This is the great indi­
vidual surrender which every man makes within
the secret recesses of his own heart and not in the
presence of any other person; the willingness
to lay upon the Altar of humanity every personal
satisfaction and pleasure in order to become as
pure and selfless a vessel as possible; a willing
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 151
ness to endure and stand by until accomplishment
is attained.
Then comes the activity of PERCEPTION—
the training of the faculties by which conscious
healings take place; the holding of the thought-
form, energizing it by feeling and the radiation
which enables it to lower that healing into ex­
ternalized manifestation.
It takes real DIVINE LOVE and FAITH. It
takes the kind of love that Beloved Buddha had
when first He saw mankind’s distresses—those dis­
tresses which had been hidden from him by the
over-solicitude of His father. It is the love for
mankind that will not let you rest while any
among the race know imperfection, distress or
limitation. It also takes the faith that, in Its scien­
tific accuracy, TH E LAW CANNOT FAIL! One
must know beyond the shadow of the faintest
doubt that the efficacy of that Law is dependent
upon the constancy of the application. That ap­
plication must be held until the condition yields
and the necessary PURITY is drawn to produce
and sustain the healing.
This PURITY of which We speak is the purity
of mind that keeps the mental body free from
dwelling in secret (not only in class time but all
during the 24 hours of each day) upon any im­
pure thoughts and feelings. Such impurity would
re-qualify the crystal light substance through
which might flow the directed healing current of
the “Immaculate Concept” of the lifestream. That
152 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
purity requires nothing for itself, not even recog­
nition or thanksgiving and is absolutely selfless
in every way. It lives just like a beam of light and
allows the infinite power of the Father to render
the service through you.
Another requisite to success along these lines of
endeavor is the POWER OF CONCENTRA­
TION—staying with something until it is fulfilled
consciously. How many of you have the con­
stancy to remain with one application until any
one lifestream is completely released and relieved
of every distress? Multiply that by 10 billion souls,
representing every brother and sister of humanity,
and you will know something of the demand of
constancy. When no one face is more dear to you
than another; when no one countenance draws
from you more healing than another but all
mankind become your children—that is Divine
constancy!
Then the INFINITE RHYTHM pours into
your application systematically through visualiza­
tion and through calls until you have the mani­
festation, no matter how long it takes! O! watch
the rhythm of the sea—its rise and its fall; the
rhythm of your seasons, your Spring, Autumn,
Winter and Summer; the rhythm of your tide, in­
coming and outgoing; and the rhythm with which
you feed your physical body. Then you will have
some understanding of the rhythm of application
which is required to enable you to become a heal­
ing fountain for the masses. Spasmodic feeding of
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 153
the energy of your life into spiritual activity does
not make for Cosmic momentum, children. If man­
kind were as spasmodic in the feeding of the in­
tellect while they learn the arts or while they learn
the professions, there would be very few who
could act with efficacy. However, in spiritual mat­
ters, mankind feels that rhythm is so unimportant.
It is one of the inost important activities and it is
one reason why 1 am so grateful for the unbroken
rhythm of these four days. It enables Me to bring
an increase each day of the currents and substance
of Myself into your worlds and, through you, to
mankind.
Last, but not least, there is required the IN­
DESTRUCTIBLE HARMONY AND PEACE
maintained among your own members, among
your physical bodies, your mental, emotional and
etheric bodies and your Holy Christ Selves. Each
individual who becomes a part of a healing group
must have his own bodies in accord before he be­
comes a “conductor” of merit. Then each such
member must be in accord with the Group Direc­
tor and that group, as one, becomes a magnifying
power of whatever God-Being you invoke. They
also become a radiating center of those currents
that flow forth into the atmosphere like the spokes
of a wheel. That unbroken harmony maintained
undisturbed year after year, does draw forth mag­
nificent activities for the blessings of Earth and
Her people.
154 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Beloved ones, if you are desirous of specializ­
ing in the activity of healing through the natural
affinity of your city and your own lifestreams,
please take it seriously and endeavor to perfect
your own vehicles so that you may become a glori­
ous power here. From this center there can flow
forth that light and blessing to all the race. It is
an opportunity without parallel—one that has
drawn Me into your presence. It has drawn the
attention of Kwan Yin and all of those of the
Angelic Host, particularly Beloved Uriel and the
Angels of Ministration. It has also drawn My
Beloved Jesus and Lord Maitreya, for all of Us
desire to use your energies to conduct the bless­
ings of healing to mankind at large.
Now, We shall return to Our story and give you
the blessing and the remembrance of it. As We re­
cite these simple details, please accept the actual
currents which flow from My heart, magnifying
that particular quality which you chose to charge
into your Tube of Light. This latter suggestion
is for those of you who accepted My idea of the
other evening that you charge your individual
Tube of Light with a specific quality of blessing
to mankind as a Christmas gift to Our Beloved
Jesus. A t your call, this can be a sustained gift to
your fellowmen.............
After the Ascension of the Beloved Jesus from
the Hill of Bethany, those of Us Who knew of
the coming of the Holy Spirit prepared for the
first Pentecost. Our Beloved Matthew was keeper
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 155
of our funds and it was His responsibility to see
that We secured an upper chamber where the
disciples might meet, right in Jerusalem. Here the
first baptism of the Sacred Fire pouring through
them gave them that comfort which their hearts
so much desired and that confidence and faith
which their souls required. This they had formerly
received from the proximity to Jesus'physical Pres­
ence but it seemed to recede from them with His
ascending form. Right after the Crucifixion and
the Resurrection, things were very quiet so far as
the Sanhedrin and the Roman Government were
concerned, for they felt they had put an end to
this particular menace to their authority. How­
ever, the Beloved Jesus suggested that we should
in no way draw attention to Our small, humble
community in Bethany. He asked Us to go down
into Jerusalem and prepare for that Pentecost,
using great wisdom in all Our actions so as not
to draw upon our heads any undue wrath.
Therefore, at that Pentecost with which you
are all familiar, when the radiation of the Beloved
Holy Spirit poured down, the disciples were filled
anew with vital fire; with the desire to go forth
and preach the Gospel. Now they felt even a
thousand fold more strong than they did when
they were in the actual Presence of the Beloved
Jesus. Personally, I was greatly relieved when this
took place because that ten days after the Ascension
was a great drain upon My strength. They all
leaned on Me for faith and confidence in that
156 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
seeming "loss" of the proximity of the physical
association with their Friend, Jesus.
For a time we abided ill this comparative peace
and we planted our grain, flax and trees. We
sheared our sheep and wove our garments. In the
evenings we wrote the simple Gospels. The women
sewed and embroidered and the disciples them­
selves taught those who came to Us.
Then one day there came a message from Joseph
of Ariraathea who had great business holdings in
the British Isles. It was requisite for him to sail
west on a trip to Britain and he gave us the invi­
tation to accompany him. As we had been told
by the Beloved Jesus that sometime, previous to
Our Own victory and Ascension, it would be neces­
sary to carry the “Cup” to the British Isles. We felt
within Ourselves that this was the hour of oppor­
tunity. At about this same time We heard that
Pilate was to be replaced by the Romans and we
knew then that the new Governor would not be
as lenient as Pilate had been. The disciples there­
fore thought it wise for Me to be removed from
that place temporarily, so we made our simple
preparations to join Joseph’s caravan and go west.
Joseph of Arimathea, like all men of great
wealth in his day, had many slaves and those slaves
manned the galleys of his boat. I said to him:
"Joseph, We cannot carry that Sacred "Cup" with
slave labor”. He said: “No, truly, that could not
be". Then from among the Christians of our
little band we received offers from enough of the
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 157
gentlemen to man each oar when required—when
the winds of Heaven did not provide the sufficient
motivating power for the sails. We left John in
Bethany to hold the daily tryst with Our Beloved
Jesus. Wc also left Andrew and Mark and with Us
We took Peter, James, Bartholomew and Nathaniel.
We also took Mary of Bethany but Martha re­
mained at home to watch the household with her
usual care. Pilate’s wife also came with Us for she
was to return to Rome and We thought to leave her
there en route. We were a simple but dedicated
band. I remember, as We all knelt that final morn­
ing and John gave us the benediction, We felt the
Presence of the Beloved Jesus.
The first bloom of My youth was gone and the
journey seemed long to Me. I wondered within
Myself whether I should ever return to the scenes
so dear to Me because of the Christian pageant of
which I had been a part. However, I did—I re­
turned again 1 Tomorrow I shall tell you of those
last days and of My Own victory. However, today
we shall continue the story of Our journey.
We passed Alexandria (in Egypt) and Joseph
asked Me if I would like to visit Luxor. I was
indeed delighted to have the opportunity. As you
know, Alexandria is quite a distance from Luxor
and Joseph’s boat could not take Us all the way.
So, Joseph and his group waited for Our return
at Alexandria while Peter, James, a few others
and Myself went to Luxor.
158 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
There I renewed My association with the mag­
nificent Hierarch of that Retreat (Serapis Bey)
and gave Him My personal gratitude for His
assistance in that victory of the first Resurrection
morning.
I stood in the Halls of Luxor, smelled the fra­
grance of those lovely lilies and felt the Flame of
the Ascension pass through My body. I so much
enjoyed that association, short and sweet as it
was.
Then as We returned to Alexandria, to Joseph
and his group and joined Our caravan, We stopped
at the Island of Crete near Greece. There we
stayed a month and the Beloved Jesus in His great
kindness came to Us and helped Us magnetize and
prepare the way for the “Great Persuader” the
Apostle Paul (today, the Ascended Master Hila­
rión) . He was later to bring the light into that
land. Then, as We left Crete, We headed toward
Rome. You will remember that We had with Us
Pilate's wife whom we were to leave at that city.
However, the Beloved Jesus came to Us and said:
"Stop not in Italy as there is already a great move­
ment begun against Christianity. Move onward”.
So we did go on and Pilate’s wife was very glad
for the opportunity of continuing the journey
with Us.
Then we sailed onward to the very tip of the
Iberian Peninsula. There I disembarked in order
to make the pilgrimage through Fatima, through
Lourdes, through Orleans, through all the places
FIRST PENTECOST CELEBRATION 159
that would be magnetized later. I stayed and
prayed some time in each one and the current of
energy from My Own heart drew down those spe­
cial Rays which some great soul would later vital­
ize. When I came to the north of France, We met
the kindly Joseph of Arimathea again and he car­
ried Us across the Channel to the magnificent
Isle of Britain. As We set foot upon these shores, I
carried the “Cup" within My Own hands and all
of Us knelt on the sands. As We were so kneeling,
the Beloved Jesus manifested and gave the first
benediction and ceremony of the Holy Grail. It
was this etheric record into which the Beloved
Arthur (King Arthur of the Round Table) was
to "tune in” so powerfully later. The “Cup” was
left by Us in Glastonbury.
We remained in the Isle of Britain for some
time, traveling up through Scotland and Wales.
We then went into Ireland where a few hundred
years later another disciple of Lord Maitrcya
(the Beloved Saint Patrick) was to render a
service to life. Again We magnetized that place
through prayer, by invocation and by devotion
to God until those mighty currents stood as a
living pillar of vital fire and light. Into this pillar
of light the mighty Patrick walked, in His outer
consciousness not even knowing of this prepara­
tion made for Him by Those who went before.
Even so, He felt that strength and fire which en­
abled Him to bring the Christian faith into Ire­
land. How seldom does mankind know the prayer,
160 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the invocation, the magnetization and the appli­
cation that makes their ministry possible as they
place their feet in the shining footprints of those
who preceded them.
We had a lovely stay in the Isle of Britain which
was destined for a great future. Here Francis Bacon
(now the Beloved Saint Germain), desired to es­
tablish a “United States of Europe’’, hoping, if
it were successful, to extend it to the rest of the
world. Here also the Beloved Jesus gave a blessing
through radiation that one day all mankind shall
see in its fullness. We left three of Our party in
Britain and started the long journey home around
the Rock of Gibraltar, through the Mediterranean.
I was so glad to see that lovely old granary and
I was glad to see the seeds that I had planted fully
grown and bearing a fine harvest. It was good to
see the trees We had planted grown so tall and
strong. I was delighted, too, to see the beloved
brothers and sisters who rushed forward to meet
Me and then to kneel down in the privacy of My
Own little room and kiss the ground of Judea.
Thus, at the close of this trip, was Our great mis-
sion accomplished.
After that, I had but to abide within the patience
of the Great Law until My call should come; until
I should hear My Beloved Son say: "Mother, Your
hours are accomplished. Now, COME HOME!”
Thank you for your loving interest. Good
evening!
o $ n cA d d red d
by
iflowii iitary
^ 'IT lo tk e r o } ^ e d u d
November 28, 1954
(On: "Grace", More intercessory prayer; more on journey carry­
ing "Cup" to British Isles; Return to Bethany; First community
life of Christian Dispensation; Ascension of Mary.)
11
r
l the Name of the One living God that beats
your hearts, in the Name of the Ascended Jesus
Christ Whom I represent, I call today from the
heart of Heaven Itself the "Grace” of the Holy
Spirit, that sweet anointing from above that des­
cends, enters into your soul and stirs there again
the remembrance of the perfection which you
knew long before the world wasl This "Grace”
of the Holy Spirit which I call forth for you now,
releases the perfume of your own Divinity, com­
ing from that airless cell in your heart. It satisfies
your soul, sublimates it and raises each of you
again into the glorious and magnificent victory
of your God-estate from whence you have fallen
into present limitation.
I speak to you this morning on the subject of
"Grace”. “Grace” comes alone from the Spirit and
is a gift from the Godhead Itself. It is “Grace”
which makes it possible for those of you, among
all the great numbers of people in this city, to
163
164 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
believe that I AM HERE; to comprehend My
words and to accept the possibility and actuality
of the communion of Saints with unascended
beings. It is that spiritual "Grace" which enables
die soul to discern Truth; that enables the heart
to recognize the import of the Cosmic moment;
that enables the knee to bend before the Cosmic
Law’s fiat and Our hands to be outstretched to
give assistance. Even in your world of outer ac­
tivity, that which is done gracefully—that which
is done with a spirit filled with a sense of grace—
brings happiness to all the individual contacts.
That which is done grudgingly, or through a
sense of duty, ofttimes brings little of comfort or
happiness to either the benefactor or the one who
is the recipient of the benefaction.
This spirit of "Grace” is an ephemeral activity
and yet it should be wooed, invoked and called
forth by the students upon the Path. Without it,
one misses so many of the wonderful opportunities
of each hour. You see, the sounds of the outer
world are so loud that the voice of the Spirit
within can scarcely be heard.
I have been called so kindly "The Mother of
Grace” and have been referred to as being an
individual “filled with grace”. As One Who abided
within a state of “listening grace" through all My
life, I can recommend to you the cultivation of
that specific radiation which comes from God. My
children, live within a state of “listening grace”,
for you never know the hour of visitation. Never
" g r a c e " ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 165
do you know when the voice of God, speaking
through the lips of an outer man, may be giving
to you the opportunity of a lifetime! However,
when you are calm and poised and your Inner
Self is filled with that consciousness of "Grace”,
you can hear the Word of God and see His
living Presence, no matter what the disguise
or the form through which It manifests. I have
been told that had I not been in a state of “Grace”
at the instant when Gabriel chose to come and
give to Me the message concerning the coming of
the Messiah, I would have missed Him. If Joseph
had not been listening within His secret heart,
We would not have heard the warning of the
Angel to flee before Herod's wrath. All through
Our lives, in split second crises, the consciousness
of harmony and “living inside with God” made it
possible for Us to avert so many of the appear­
ances that could have engulfed Us.
“Grace” is of the Spirit. He who lives within
that calm, radiant peace, resting on the bosom of
His Own Eternal Immortal Flame, such a man is
wise indeed. He is ever alert to the Word of God
in every sense and the direction of that Great and
majestic Presence, ready for the Messengers from
on High Who would choose to use such an one.
You may enjoy knowing that your blessed "force-
field” which has been drawn this morning is in the
form of a glorious Maltese Cross made of the
Easter lily. As that “forcefield” expands, I call upon
you; upon the souls of all incarnate mankind;
166 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
upon the Great Angel Devas over every church in
this great metropolitan area and over every hos­
pital and asylum, the Holy Grace of the Mighty
Malia Chohan. I call that "Grace" forth also
through the hearts, souls and spirits of every priest,
minister and rabbi—every religion in this great
metropolis—and through the spirit and very selves
of every one dedicated to God’s good throughout
the planet. In the Name of the Ascended Jesus
Christ I make this call and, even as these words are
spoken, that glorious sweet anointing flows from
the Heart of the Universal, nourishing the shoots
of spiritual accomplishment within the souls of
men. As this class closes today and the release is
given to the Angelic Host through Lord Michael’s
charge, the Angels of Uriel shall take those lilies
i which have been drawn in this lovely “forcefield"
expanding that magnificent Maltese cross whose
form they make, until the planet is held within
that cross. Then, from above, the Angels of the
Madonna Temple shall shower the inner atmos­
phere of Earth with the form of the lily. This
form represents the Ascension, the redemption of
the Earth and the Ascension of all mankind. So,
truly do we live in an hour of accomplishment.
My lovely ones, do you know that I have written
these few memoirs on your life? Just as if you
took a plain piece of paper and wrote with a pen,
so have I taken your life—life which you have
used month after month and year after year in
making these calls and applications. This has be-
" g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 167
come a gathered momentum of substance and on
it I have written My Own words which shall en­
dure. Perhaps they will become an interesting
story to generations even yet unborn. I am very
grateful for this privilege of being able to so write
upon your life.
Now as you enter into the glory of the sacred
weeks approaching the Christmas Season, I believe
you will feel a closeness to Beloved Jesus, Beloved
Saint Germain and Myself. Remember, I am
willing to intercede for you as a Friend and an
Advocate, if you want Me. I am willing to offer
My prayers and invocations with yours. Just as
you would take a small candle flame and enfold
it in a mighty compass of a bonfire, so docs the
prayer, invocation and aspiration of an Ascended
Being enfold the small slender aspiration and the
timid application of the unascended. In that com­
bined upward rush of energy, your call can reach
and be accepted by the Higher Heavens through
the momentum of that which We offer.
Now we shall turn again to the story which I
have woven for you with much joy. While I have
been doing this, I have woven into the substance
of your worlds a realization of Our actual, practi­
cal reality as individuals.
During the journey from Judea to the Isles of
Britain, from time to time I was prompted to
draw into our company certain lifestreams from
the various countries through which we passed.
There again the state of "listening grace” was so
168 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
important. Perhaps I would be just walking along
the road or visiting with some friends and I would
suddenly hear a very delicate burst of music.when
I would pass through the aura of a specific soul.
I could feel and sense that vibration in My body.
It was just as delicate as the song of a bird, scarcely
discernible; yet, when I would hear that, I would
pause and look around to see whom I was to invite
to accompany Us.
Out of the land of Egypt alone, I drew twelve
individuals. From Greece We drew several more
and when Joseph (of Arimathea) put us ashore
in Portugal, we began that long wearisome journey
through Spain and France. Crossing the Pyrenees
is no small task when one has not the comfort of
carriages and has but the assistance of one’s own
locomotion or sometimes a donkey. We drew from
Portugal those who were to be the children of
Fatima later and We drew from Spain those who
were to be known later as Loyola and Xavier. We
drew from France a small child who was later
to become Bernadette. All of these We gathered
into Our group, depending upon the courtesy of
Our host to accept Our ever-increasing number.
When We got to Glastonbury We abided for some
time, as We were making certain records for a
future day. There We drew a very small infant
who would one day be the Mighty Saint Patrick
and glad I was I had women in My company to
help me care for him. Those of you who have
crossed the English Channel or know the rough
" g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r v p r a y e r 169
seas off the shores of Spain, can imagine what it
was to travel these seas with small children in not
so large a vessel, propelled by oars and sails. Some­
times We were becalmed for days in a blazing sun
and sometimes tossed about like a chip on those
rough seas. Then I was glad We had woven cloaks
for ourselves from the warm wool of the sheep.
These made Us more comfortable but even so,
there was very little privacy and very great prox­
imity among those who were comparative strangers.
Yet, We made that journey in such harmony.
Those oarsmen, with their strong arms, as they
beat out the path for that vessel through the blue
waters of the Mediterranean, were creating for
themselves the right to be the first Knights of
Arthur’s Court. How long is the karma woven
before the day of opportunity, which gives man
the right to wear the Crown of Victory!
It was a long journey back, but We finally re­
turned to Our home. You will remember We had
left the Beloved disciple John in charge while We
were gone. John was a visionary and a dreamer.
He was a mystic but not a practical man. There­
fore, when We got back, Peter (the Patriarch of
our new activity) was distressed indeed to find
that, although through Martha’s care the house­
hold had run smoothly, individual liberties had
run down the morale of our new community.
Peter said to James: "Never again shall I go away
unless you remain. Never again shall I leave to
this dreamer the fate of a community that is yet
170 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
so new that it could easily be swallowed up again
by the Sanhedrin or by Rome". I smiled within
Myself for I knew that love was still the greatest
thing in the Universe. Not one had left and even
as they had clustered around Jesus, now they
clustered around John. In the fragrance of His
Presence and His love they found peace.
Then I think began the fifteen most difficult
years, the years of adjustment with the many
selves; the years when I had to be Mother and
referee among so many types of individuals. For
lack of actual leadership, the community at home
had reverted to or continued in the celebration of
the Jewish feasts—the Passover and others. Peter
was incensed at this. He said to Me: “Mother, it
is fitting now that We have Our own new and
vibrant worship. We shall build around new holi­
days the events of Our Master, doing away with
the old.”
I said: "Yes I think it is time". So We had Our
first Christmas celebration, The disciples pre­
pared a small crib as a surprise for Me and We
re-enacted the Nativity with a lot of happiness and
joy.
I had meant to tell you that, in the visitations
of Beloved Jesus after the Resurrection, the music
which you use today to “Joy to the World” always
accompanied His Presence. Ofttimes when We
would be together, I would be amazed that the
entire group did not hear that theme as Jesus
would come within the room in the magnificence
“ g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 171
of His Electronic Body. He was a part of many of
the festivities in which We all joined.
In due time, We had Our first Easter celebra­
tion, Our Ascension Day and Our Pentecost ser­
vices. Thus We began a rhythm of worship, dis­
carding the old and building in the new.
During this time, I continued My work in the
garden for, even yet, I enjoyed the natural activity
of healing that is within the Earth. With the
help of Mary Magdalene I was enabled to create
ointment which We used to put on the feet of
the disciples and apostles when they would re­
turn from their long journeys. As you know,
many were barefoot and others had only simple
sandals to protect the feet. The hot sands would
crack the soles of their feet, but after we had put
this ointment upon those feet, in a few days they
would be all right again.
Then one day, I remember it well—Peter burst
in and said: "Those heathen!”
I said: “What heathen?"
Peter answered: “Those heathen from India!
Do you know what they have done? They have
made a great, big Sun on the side of Out house
and they are worshiping it.”
I said: "Well, Peter, let Us go and see”.
So We went out and, sure enough, there was a
great big Sun, symbolic of Osiris. I smiled and
said: “You know Peter, had you thought that the
Sun is very like Our Jesus? Each night It seems
to descend into the tomb and each morning It has
172 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
a Resurrection. These blessed ones are newly
come and do not know the Master as you and I
do. They do not worship the Sun any more than
We worship Our Jesus."
Peter said: “Well, yes, but there are a lot of
people hereabouts who are going to pass by and
they think We are fanatical enough without seeing
the Sun on the side of Our house".
“All right”, I answered.
“Besides that” said Peter, “We just white washed
the house."
“Very well. Get Andrew and white-wash over
the symbol they have made there. I will give these
men some sun flower seed. We will plant them
against the side of the house and through the
symbol of those flowers they can worship their
Sun.” Then Peter was pleased. You know you have
personalities to deal with wherever you are.
Another night I heard a great commotion in
the yard and looking out I found Andrew and
James intent on going fishing. Peter was oppos­
ing it violently. I went out. Andrew and James
said they longed for the Sea of Galilee, the smell
of the salt air and the fresh breezes.
I said to Peter: “Now why don’t you go with
Andrew and James and preach along the shores
of Galilee? You need not fish for now you are all
'fishers of men’.”
Then they went off together, arm in arm, in
happiness. It is joy to bring understanding.
“ g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 173
Another day the lovely wife of Pilate came, her
face flushed with anger and indignation. She said:
“That man!"
I said: “Whom do you mean?”
She said: “He destroyed my lovely Apollo. I
had placed Him in the garden where I might use
Him as an ornament in a bird sanctuary".
I said: “You go and get it”.
I called Peter Who said: “We won't have any
idolatry. We will not have the Roman gods in
this community!”
“Peter”, I said, "This figure is only representa­
tive of beauty. It is an embodiment of love and
beauty from the Sun. Go get some plaster and
replace that lovely head upon its body”. Peter
did as I asked. We had many amusing experiences
and many happy ones.
One day as I was working, I thought it would
be lovely to have some bees to give us honey, be­
cause the men had such plain fare. I had some
brassware and knew a way to work with elemental
life. I knew that bees respond to certain sounds
so I went out into the fields and called the wild
bees with the clinking of the brassware. They
gathered together with their Queen and we had
our own hive and honeycombs. Then the men
were able to have honey with their unleavened
bread.
Our beloved Mary Magdalene was very much
interested in perfumery. Peter balked at that too.
174 MEMOIRS O f BELOVED MARY
He said: “What shall we call this? A foppery,
perhaps?”
I answered: “Well, let Us put it into the oint­
ment and when We anoint people's feet for heal­
ing, the substance will be fragrant.” Then He
was pleased—so was Mary Magdalene—and there
was peace!
Now, looking back, you may think that I sat
with hands folded looking Heavenward. Children!
I lived as you do and every day brought its own ex­
periences of happiness and joy but it brought the
other sort of experiences also, believe Me!
Then came the folks from India and they all
sat cross-legged in the corner of the courtyard.
The disciples said: “Those who won’t work, won’t
eat." They are not going to sit over there in the
corner all day while We have to till these fields
and milk the goats, tend the sheep, etc. They
aren’t going to get any food if they won’t help.”
I said to them: “Look! You are going to have
men, women and children, too, from all over the
world. Did not Jesus say ‘There are also sheep
that are not of this fold’? Those men who just
sit there have come to be within the aura of
Bethany, just to absorb the radiation of the Master
with Whom most of you have had the privilege
of living and know so well. They are satisfied to
go this whole life through and never hear a word
from His lips, ask for no visitation, just willing to
receive the radiation here which is the hem of Hii
garment".
“ GRACE"; INTERCESSORY PRAYER 175
Then the disciples agreed that this was so and
supplied these people with food, fruit and drink,
in fact far more than the ascetic could use.
01 We had happy times. We had the coming
of the Jew, the Gentile, the Roman, the men of
Persia, of India, the men of Egypt and Greece,
the men of Gaul and Britain. It is not an easy
thing to combine men in spirit All this time Our
Beloved John was growing more and more like
His Master, even as to the contour of His face, the
shine of His hair and the brilliance of His eyes.
Remember, He and I had our daily communion
at the top of the Hill of Bethany and sometimes
the disciples and friends who had known Jesus
in life, accompanied Us. John or Myself would
be able to convey to them (in much the same
manner as you hear Me now) that about which
Jesus spoke. For years John wrote down those
magnificent revelations. He has now applied
to the Karmic Board for a dispensation whereby
some of those revelations may be given again in
His Own words and written into the Book of Life.
We are hoping They will permit this to be done.
Finally, as time went on, the Beloved Saul of
Tarsus (Who later became known as Paul) came
to Us. He was another great man who suffered
agonies of torment. He suffered such remorse for
what He had done to Stephen and others, besides
the remorse that He had not been in a state of
“listening grace” and so missed the opportunity
176 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
of being a part of Jesus’ ministry. Yet, He had a
terrific drive of energy in His determination to
"make things right”. I would sometimes find Him
in the depths of despair with the tears running
down His cheeks. Other times, I would find Him
so filled with the arrogance and knowledge of the
Law, arguing violently with the untutored dis­
ciples. I would say: “Paul, listen well, for these
men have heard the voice of the Master in faith
and they have lived in His aura. They have
breathed in the etheric Presence of Jesus”. Then
He would subside.
During this time, these various disciples and
apostles were going out on their various missions
and ministries and coming back from these. When
Peter would go away on a mission, He would be
sure to have James remain behind so that We
would not again fall into the confusion which We
found on Our return from Britain. We, the
women, would endeavor to see that the disciples
and apostles had warm clothes, particularly for
those who were going into the northern climates.
Finally, within about nine years before the close
of My embodiment, I said to Peter: “If you will
build Me now a small house and chapel apart
from the community, by the edge of the stream,
I shall cloister Myself and prepare to meet My
Maker”.
This was done and there I lived the rest of My
life. Mary of Bethany and other beloved friends
“ g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 177
would bring flowers, candles and fresh fruit. 1
spent those years in contemplation of My Lord;
in reminiscence of the early days of My life; My
first Christmas and all the years with Joseph; die
parting while Jesus went into India so soon after
His Father had left the Earth; His triumphant re­
turn; the Resurrection and His own Ascension.
It became physically difficult for Me to climb
the Hill of Bethany and John kept the vigil for
Me. I began to enter more into the world of the
“beyond" than the world of the “here”. Finally,
in May, right after the Pentecost, I said to John:
“Call the disciples and apostles home, for be­
fore August closes Her radiation, I shall have
joined My Son".
You know, it took a great deal of time—some­
times months—to reach individuals who were in
far away places like Greece. They all came home,
but in the meantime, I had asked that a small
chapel be built on top of Bethany’s hill, just a
very simple one. On the 10th of August I walked
up that hill, having asked that I might be alone on
this occasion. I placed My feet in the shining
footprints of My Son as I ascended that hill. For
three days and three nights, I remained there in
that chapel fasting and praying. By then, all of
the disciples and apostles were home and they
came up to the hill for Me. I descended from the
hill with them into My Own home and there I
spoke to them, the original disciples particularly.
178 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
I told them that I would leave this world and
that on the 15th of August My Ascension would
be completed. I asked them how they wished to
pursue the rest of their course. John said: ‘‘I
shall follow You, Mother, as soon as I hear the
Y'oice of My Presence”.
Paul said: “Knowing My nature, I shall take no
chances. If I have earned My freedom, I shall
take it!”
Peter James and Andrew said: “We shall tarry
until He comes again. We shall endeavor to do
throughout the Christian Dispensation, Mother,
what You have done throughout these thirty long
years." I blessed them all and then the other
members of the community came in. I blessed
them too. Then I closed My eyes on this world
to open them in the Presence of Joseph first, then
Jesus. As you know, they placed My body within
a rocky tomb and scaled it for three days. During
this time I was free in the Higher Octaves, pre­
paring for the Ascension, of My physical form.
Then did I return and raise that flesh form. I
called it to Me, absorbed it into My Own Holy
Christ Self and consciously entered into the Heart
of My Presence as My Son did before Me. I left
within the tomb a white rose for each one of that
community. That is why the white rose is par­
ticularly dear to those who were a part of that
service.
When they rolled back the door from My tomb,
they found the body was gone and the fragrance
“ g r a c e ” ; in t e r c e s s o r y p r a y e r 179
of the roses filled the place. They then made the
Holy Day which is now called "The Assumption of
the Blessed Virgin”.
After that in My full God-freedom, I enjoyed
renewing My associations with all those who had
assisted Me on the other side—Lord Maitreya,
Gabriel and Raphael, Jesus and Joseph, Anne and
Joachim, Elizabeth and John, John the Baptist
and all who had gone before. Yes, with Judas too!
Then came the crowning of My humble self
for service. In a great and mystic ceremony similar
to that in which Beloved Saint Germain and Be­
loved Portia engaged in the month of May this year,
the Beloved Master Jesus placed on My head the
Crown of the Queen of Heaven for the Christian
Dispensation. Cosmically, 1 became the Mother of
the World. I have remained so until recently
when I turned over to Portia, the Goddess of
Opportunity, that great office for the New Era.
So this morning, beloved of My heart, I give
the white rose of friendship in memory of a con­
scious Ascension. Remember, the day when you
too lay aside the garments of flesh and stand God-
free, I shall greet you, both as a Friend and as a
Mother.
May the blessings of Our Lord Jesus and God
in Heaven be upon you always. Good morning!
cJln cAddreôô
h
IM
aupîi üanj
<
~ÏÏlotker o | ^eàuô
Good Friday morning, April 8, 1955
(On: Thought-forms of blessing sent from class; Thoughts at
foot of cross on first Good Friday; Mary’s vow to Jesus to stay
and start Christian Dispensation; Mary's early experiences in
Temple and with Archangels; Memories of meeting and associa­
tion with Joseph; Joseph’s passing; Meeting disciples and asso­
ciation with them: Training with and of Elemental Kingdom;
Importance of making friends with Elemental (Nature)
Kingdom) .
12
7 5 ELOVED and blessed children of My bosom,
JL) friends of My heart, co-workers with God in
establishing the glory and majesty of His Kingdom,
how I love you! How My solicitude, My friend­
ship, My devotion has flowed toward your life-
flame that has burned so brilliantly, so constantly
and so enthusiastically amid the great seas of
maya. Each of you tends the candle of your own
light, breathing upon your individual vows the
enthusiasms of your personal selves. However, by
your co-operative service, you arc emitting a light
which has encompassed the entire planet through
the endeavors of just a handful of earnest, devoted
and blessed lifestreams.
One does not know just how far a blessing will
go when it is sent forth from the heart of love.
A thought-form of blessing no larger than the size
of one's fingernail, with beautiful wings upon it,
created by love within the heart and released to
bless life, may encircle the entire planet. It may
rest upon the shoulder of some man, woman or
183
184 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
child who is "downhearted”, giving just the right
strength and courage required for that one to again
"take heart" and face victoriously the problems
of their daily lives. Such an one would be en­
couraged anew by a blessing born in your breast,
issued from your heart or lips but always propelled
by feeling.
Lovely ones, as you stood together today and
in the preceding days of this class, your Sanctuary
looked like one of those beautiful Eucharist Cups
which has been fashioned in memorial of the first
Communion service. From It has poured forth
these various thought-forms, each engendered by
your own particular vibratory action and the Ray
to which you belong. All of them had tiny wings
and they have gone north, south, east and west,
anchoring in many human hearts and in many of
the Forces of Nature, remaining ensouled there by
a Devic Being or a Cherubic Being as the encour­
agement of your light and as a lasting and perma­
nent gift from this class.
You see, it is not enough to issue the decrees,
the fiats and the blessings and then, when they
have spent themselves, to let the world return to
sleep again. Those decrees, fiats and blessings
must be made "alive” and sustained in light
eternal so that they live and grow, even as does
the light of My Son, increasing in splendor, in
magnetism and in the power to stir other life-
streams to a like accomplishment. That is the
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 185
activity of “The Light of God that Never Fails”;
the activity of Those of Us Who serve It.
In the Ascended Masters’ Realm, every thought,
every feeling and every spoken word is so perfect,
so beautiful, that it has earned the right to live
forever and become a permanent radiation of
blessing to this Universe. So, this week, We have
carefully "combed over” the energies which you
have released. We have sent forth those which
have earned the right to live in this physical ap­
pearance world and the mental and feeling worlds
of mankind as well. From the Eucharist (which
is the body of this class) made up of the living
cells of your own life and light, there has flowed
a benediction to the Nature Kingdom and the
human kingdom too, which will be felt long after
you return individually to your small orbits and
your respective localities.
Today, on a million altars, candles are burning
to My Son. Today, before many pulpits, knees
are bent and the words of “The Rosary” are going
forth. Through the worship of the people today,
remembrance of Me, too, is rising like a blue
cloud of incense, not only here in America, but
in Europe and the Orient as well. All that magne­
tized energy becomes a bridge over which My life
may flow back into the hearts of those who re­
member Mary; those who remember Joseph and
those who remember Jesus. Abstract as their de­
votions are, through this activity this morning
We bring back to them, each one, the blessing of
186 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
a simple and homely Family Who lived but to
serve God and to do His Will. We lived to write
on the records of Akasha a message of hope; of
God's goodness; of Jesus' light and life, so that
succeeding generations might read it—hearts be
kindled and spirits stirred. It was Our hope that,
here and there among the plodding masses, there
might be one or more who would step forth into
the shining footprints of Our beloved Jesus, upon
the Path of Light and walk upwards (even as My
beloved Son did) into the glory of the Resurrec­
tion and the Ascension.
We wrote on the Akashic records and so We
prayed in constant vigilance. We lived a natural
life and closed a pilgrimage. When Our days were
done, through the graciousness of God and the
mercy of His love, We were called “Home”.
There seemed to have been little accomplished
except for the very few who had the honor of
proximity to the beloved Master and His message.
It seemed as though there had been but little
accomplished, too, when My strong, young Boy
was placed on Calvary’s cross. It seemed that little
had been accomplished by His words of wisdom:
His life of grace; His miraculous healings.
John and I stood at the foot of that cross and
as I looked upon the turbulent and curious mob
gazing at the seemingly helpless One, I reflected
for a moment—thinking "What has all our long
life come to? What have We accomplished? We
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 187
touched the hearts of a few, perhaps, and even
those few are scattered today. Youth and beauty
here are wilted. . Yet on an Easter morning p
some time later, as I stood looking at the resusci­
tated form of the One I loved so well and kissed
His blessed hand; as I saw the morning Sun re­
flected on His shining hair and that luminous
warmth in His eyes; as I felt the very texture of
the robe I had woven with My Own hands, I
thought: “Yes! Even if one man has done this;
even if no one but Myself and He should ever
know of this victory, it has been worth it all. What
one has done, all may one day do.” You see, that
was the promise of the Father of Life before We
took embodiment. That was the promise of Lord
Maitreya before We took the Initiation that—if
one could do it and one would do it, all men, all
women, all children would have like opportunity
when they chose to accept it.
Therefore, beloved Jesus and I stood that Easter
morning in a great happiness of accomplishment
and We took a new vow together. We vowed then,
that that which We had begun in simplicity but
in great faithj We would sustain, so help us God!
Even though Our paths might part temporarily,
although at Inner Levels We should not meet
again for some time, We would sustain the birth
of the Christian Dispensation until the Resurrec­
tion became not only a creed but a manifest ex­
ternalized Truth to the decadent flesh of all
mankind.
188 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
So, when Jesus said to Me: “Will You tarry foi
a while?" I said: “Son, I Who have lived so long
for You; I Who have breathed for nothing else
but to give You the courage of My life; 1 shall
remain if it be an Eternity!" There We made the
pact that We later fulfilled at Bethany when Jesus
walked up that beautiful pathway to the lovely
rock where I had prayed so often; He to walk
triumphantly into the heart of the Father from
whence He came; I to remain with a few—the
few who had heard His voice, the few who had
felt the heart-throb of His Presence; the few who
were then scattered and shaken. I was to be their
strength, their comfort and their love. Then, to­
gether, We would magnetize whatever currents
Jesus, in His light and wisdom, would send to Us.
We did this so that the Christian Dispensation
(which would live for 2000 years on Our light)
might have the vitality, the fire and the necessary
spiritual strength to sustain itself when We had
passed from the screen of life.
Beloved ones, you do not yet know what it
means to have a complete and thorough dedication
to a God purpose! You are in the process of learn­
ing and that brings you so close to My heart for,
you know, I am your Mother! I am your Mother
and My love for you is as great as it ever was for
Jesus, as I cared for Him. The “Immaculate Con­
cept” which I hold for you is as shining and per­
fect as that given to Me by Gabriel on that day,
when again He brought to Me through the veil of
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 180
flesh, remembrance of My vow; remembrance of
Jesus’ministry. No whit more beautiful was Jesus’
"Immaculate Concept” than is your own! Ah, no!
You will come to know as you rise and rise in
consciousness, that all of God’s children, each and
every one, is as dear as the other. The fullness of
perfection for each one becomes the very motivat­
ing power of the pulse-beat of your sweet hearts.
You know, I was only three, very small in Earth’s
count of years, when Anne and Joachim took Me
to the Temple. That Temple was very large to a
baby’s eyes and very impersonal, dear hearts. My
mother and father were very real to Me—so was
My home and My baby life. Yet that day My
parents performed the great service of renuncia­
tion and I entered that Temple life to remain
there until I had attained My maturity. 1 remem­
ber the kindness of those who cared for Me but
the disciplines of the Temple are never softened for
the individual. Not even for My Jesus were the
disciplines of Luxor softened, nor for John, the
disciplines of the Essenes. They were not softened,
either, for a tender child in the Temple in which
I abode.
It was a lonely life for a small child Who was
introspective in the extreme and those who were
kindest of all to Me were the Archangels. I had
newly come from Heaven; I had not yet forgotten
the shine of Their wings, the lustre of Their hair
nor the magnificence of Their Presence. In the
small cell which was mine, often at night the great
190 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
and shining Presence of Lord Michael would
come and sit by My bed. In order to assist and
instruct Me, He would have a group of small
Defending Angels march up and down across the
bed for Me, just as you would allow your children
to play with toy soldiers. However, these were
real, moving Beings. In this manner He taught
Me with the gentleness and kindness of a Mother,
the activities of the Defending Angels, Those
Whose particular service it was and is to keep the
souls of men free (wherever possible) from the
subtle influences of suggestions of impurity and
imperfection.
Then as We grew to understand each other,
these little figures would act out the various stories
which He was giving to My consciousness, to show
the All-Power of God.
Early in My activities in the Temple, the priests
were instructed that I was to be particularly
trained in the powers of concentration. I think I
was not more than five years o£ sjgejvhen, with
stylus in hand, I was given the' chore of copying
off the letters from the Scriptures and, while My
maiden friends played in the grasses and enjoyed
the dance, I would laboriously figure out these
letters and endeavor to keep My mind from the
shining Sun which I adored; from the blue sky
and from all the joys of childhood. In the after­
noon, I would ofttimes go as far away as 1 could
from the groups of individuals, to a certain place
where I would have the comfort and sweetness of
THOUCHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 191
the great Archangel Raphael, Whose love was so
great. I cannot describe to you the happiness of
that association; the beauty of that companionship.
Later came the experiences with the strength of
the mighty Gabriel—the infinite power of His
purity and light.
However, having accepted the karma of the race,
as I grew in years, the remembrance of the Angels’
wings became more dim. No longer could I hear
Their voices. Then there came a period—the
“night-time" of My soul—even as each of you has
had or will have such a ‘‘night-time", when die
glory of Heaven seems shut away. During that
time I had to ponder in My heart upon the ‘‘One­
ness’ of Our Lord-God and Myself. This I con­
tinued to do until I was released from the Temple.
Then came the days when I was awaiting the
appearance of the Guardian of My life. 1 can
never forget the day I first met Joseph. I can
never forget it because, behind Him, for the first
time in a good many years, I saw the blazing figure
of the great Archangel Zadkiel. I really did not
see the person of Joseph at all, but I knew it was
He for whom I was meant. Behind and above Him
stood the “shining One” (Zadkiel, Archangel of
the Seventh Ray), thus reminding Me of the An­
gelic Kingdom which, it seemed to Me, had re­
ceded into the imaginings of childhood.
I remember those days when Joseph and 1 pre­
pared for the birth of Jesus. I remember making
the small garments for that Infant and enjoying
192 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
the association with Joseph Who was, in Himself,
both a mystic and a very advanced spiritual man.
He was a member of the Essene Brotherhood, One
who knew much of the Law and Who imparted to
Me a great deal of that Law in those months of
waiting. Together We planned Our future; to­
gether We prayed that each of Us might have the
strength to fulfill Our mission in glory. So We
prayed that night in Bethlehem when I curled
that first fine hair of Jesus over My finger and
Joseph smiling, said: "I think now We are over
the worst of the experience”. We were ready then
to settle down into the growing years.
I remember waking in the night and, seeing
Joseph standing in the doorway, I felt that He
was troubled. I arose quickly and went to His
side. He said: "Mary, I had a warning in the
night. I know not whether it is of God and the
Angels or whether it is the fears of the Psychic-
Realm which arc pressed against My conscious
mind. It seems not possible that He, Who is bom
to such a great victory, could be so soon subject
to such cruelty. Yet, I am told We should flee
from this land at once.”
I said: "Joseph, let us get still. Let us pray".
We did so and I soon felt within Myself the truth
of that message. You know how We took Our
Babe and left. You know how We entered into
the land of Egypt. Behind Us the blood of infants
flowed in the streets and I vowed then (and Jesus
later with Me) that We personally would assist
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 193
every one of those children to their Ascension
whose life blood was a sacrifice; who died that He
might live. That vow shall be fulfilled in the
Name of GodI *
For a time, We lived in Egypt and Our beloved
Jesus went quickly and easily through all the ex­
periences there—all the experiences at Luxor. I
was not permitted to go with Him to study within
the Temple but I was trained in the powers of
concentration and privately given the same in­
struction by Beloved Serapis Bey. That instruc­
tion was on the Resurrection of the body, the
suspension of the breath and the preparation for
the public manifestation of that Resurrection
which would take place through My Son, for the
blessing of all mankind.
Later came the years when We returned to
Jerusalem; when the "immediate” (let us say)
troubles and dangers were gone. Then came the
growing years, when We had to fulfill the “letter”
of the Scripture; when Jesus went up to the Tem­
ple and fulfilled in obedience all the “letter” of
the Law, becoming in Truth “the Prince of the
House of David”. There We enjoyed those sweet
years together.
Finally, one day, Joseph said to Me: “Mary, 1
am told that I have not yet too many years ahead.
There will come a parting when You must go on
alone. I have been told by My Teacher that it is
time now to introduce Our Son to the Essenes.
It is also time for Me to bring James and John
194 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
into Your Presence and to set them upon their
spiritual path. Then I am to go out to seek those
men who My Teacher has told Me will be the
strength of You and Jesus in the days that are
to come”.
James and John had been raised by a kindly
woman and Joseph, their Guardian, (knowing
that h«6 span of life was about over) was con­
cerned within Himself about the boys, yet young
in years. He said to Me: “Beloved Mary, do You
think We should bring James and John into Our
home at this time or do You fed that it is wiser
that We keep it sanctified for the Presence of Our
blessed Jesus?”
I said at once: "I shall not make this decision
alone. Let us rest it with the Lord”.
As We did, We found it was best to keep Our
beloved Jesus in that uninterrupted sanctified
peace. So, Joseph then said: “I shall go to these
boys and ask which one of them will accept the
role as head of the household and which one is
willing to take the training preparatory to being
the ‘right-hand’ of Jesus in the days that are to
come”.
Joseph went to the home of the boys. James,
being stronger, older and more of a practical man,
took upon Himself the responsibilities of the
household. John was delivered to the Essenes
where He remained in Their training for some
years. After John had gone, Joseph said to Me:
"I think I had best take James with Me down
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 195
to Galilee. He is young to live so alone and I
shall take him to those men who are to stand with
the Beloved Jesus in the days ahead. I shall
acquaint Myself with those men and, according to
their capacity to understand, I shall endeavor to
alert them as to things which are to come—that
is, if you can spare me awhile, beloved”.
I said: "Joseph, We live but for one thing—for
the victory of this ministry; for the education of
those who can assist Us. You are as free, Beloved,
as though I were not in embodiment”.
Joseph said: “I will make these journeys as
short as I can, for My span of years on earth now
grows very short. Before I go, I want to have as
much association as possible with You and this
Boy Whom I love more than life".
Joseph then took James and went down into
Galilee. There He came upon Peter and Andrew
and talked with them. Now, this may be surpris­
ing to you (at least to some of you who may not
know die inner action of the Law) but Joseph
knew of those disciples for years before Jesus was
even aware of who they would be. Joseph talked
with these men and brought to each one as much
as their consciousness could absorb and the Law
would permit at that time. Then He returned
home and We discussed them together. Joseph
would say: “Mary, there you have a strength in
that one; there you will have perhaps a doubt:
there you will have a sweetness—look for these
men".
196 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
I did not personally meet the disciples until
some time later but when I did Joseph's wise ad­
monitions were of great assistance to Me. You
see, I had nothing in my whole life but a desire to
concentrate upon the "Immaculate Concept” of
My Son. Therefore, at that time, Joseph did for
Me and for Jesus the preliminary work in the
establishing of the Christian Era. Today, you are
giving the same kind of service to Him as you
serve the Cause of Saint Germain.*
One day, Joseph said: “I am going to take John
to join James at Capernaum. Then My work is
done”.
The parting of beloved Joseph and Myself was
not a sad one, as partings go. He was conscious
that His mission was. completed and, may I say,
completed in beautiful dignity. Jesus was already
the wonderful, embodied power of the Cosmic
Christ, having received that power from Lord
Maitreya Whom He had now accepted as His
Cosmic Teacher. (Lord Maitreya represents the
Cosmic Christ to this Earth.) During Jesus’ grow­
ing years, Our beloved Joseph's service to His
lifestream was to be His Teacher and the example
of the Father to Him. When Jesus had developed
to the place where Lord Maitreya could be His
Teacher, Joseph’s work was done.
Through the contact of the disciples with Joseph,
they were alerted—not to the personality of Jesus,
• (Note: Our Beloved Saini Germain was Joseph in a former
embodiment.)
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 197
but to the coming of the Messiah—and they were
in the process of preparation for their part in that
great event. They were alerted, too, to the truth
that such a Messiahship was soon to burst upon
the screen of life.
You see, part of their great Initiation would
come in recognizing that One Whom they were
told might come. Joseph did not tell these men
that He knew of the actual person Who would be
that Messiah but that through the study of the
ancient prophecies and teachings of the Law, He
felt that the time for the appearance of this Mes­
siah had arrived. (In other words, they were not
told exactly Who that Messiah xuould fee—they had
to discern the reality of His mission by the feel­
ings within their own hearts when they met Him
—not an easy task for any human being.)
Joseph said to Me one day: “Mary, 1 suggest
that You go up to Bethany as soon as possible after
My passing. The beloved Jesus must go Eastward
and seek His Own Teacher in India—the beloved
Divine Director. You stay in Bethany and, if
possible, have Elizabeth and John (the Baptist)
come to visit You. I leave You in the hands of
friends”.
At the hour of Joseph’s passing, Jesus and I
stood alone with Him and Joseph said: “You
know, Mary, I am going to make a vow as I leave
this life. As I look upon the beautiful Presence
of Our Son; as I look upon Your light and
strength; as I find the passing into the Father’s
198 MEMOIRS O t BELOVED MARY
Home so sweet; I am going to make a vow to life.
That vow shall be that, some day, I shall assist
every man, woman and child belonging to the
evolutions of this planet, to leave the Earth in
the same happiness and dignity; the same control
of their faculties; the same assurance of Life
Eternal, as I do! If they have done their work well,
they shall step consciously into the ‘hereafter’ in
peace and joy.”
Thus Our Beloved Joseph became the Patron of
a " happy passing”. You are all acquainted with
that, I know. Those of you who are interested in
mankind en masse, if you will so call to Him, you
can make everyone’s “passing” such a dignified,
happy and beautiful one.
Joseph was not gone very' long before Jesus pre­
pared to go eastward to India. I went up into
Bethany and there I stayed for a time. I shall not
repeat Myself for My experiences are chronicled
elsewhere.* I found that Hill of Bethany which
was to become the place from which Jesus as­
cended into the glory of Perfection—the apex of
His ministry. By walking up that hill every day
alone, praying and sending forth My invocations
for His victory, I was actually making a pattern
of light for Him. By so doing, I made a pathway-
just as every individual does who passes victori­
ously through the "wilderness” experiences of
human creation. Every such an one makes a wider
•(Note: The experiences to which beloved Mary refen here
arc described in the various addresses in this book.)
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 199
pathway of faith and truth for those who follow
on. So, with My Own physical body again (as
at the time of birth) with My very life, 1 made a
pathway of light for Jesus up that hillside. On the
top of that hill, I made a pathway too—here
through the Psychic and Astral Realm, connecting
with the consciousness of the beloved Vesta (God­
mother to the Earth from our physical Sun). Over
this pathway My Son would later walk in triumph.
Even though the strength was His, the vitality and
fire, still all of My life added to His, gave Him
added assistance.
Jesus returned from India, you will remember,
and We had a short time together before His min­
istry began in earnest; before He set out to find
the men whom Joseph had previously alerted
(those who were to become the disciples). Jesus
quickly found these men and returned with them
in happiness. Then, for the first time, I met those
of whom I had previously heard—those whom I
knew in character and nature through the descrip­
tions given Me by Joseph, my beloved spouse.
Through His service, He “bridged” our conscious­
ness.
For the most part, while Jesus was engaged in
His ministry, I remained at home, endeavoring to
prepare for the victory of the Resurrection morn­
ing. I have already spoken to you briefly about
that.
Now, as the Ascended Ones always come to
bring light, strength, beauty, courage, happiness
200 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
and positive assurance to all, while I have spoken
to you this morning, I have opened My heart;
opened the treasure-chest of sweet and sacred
memories I have never shared before. During this
time, also. We (beloved Jesus and the other radi­
ating Masters) have been giving Our blessing,
Our benediction to all mankind. Please feel that,
while I have been speaking to you, My love and
light have entered many bodies where there has
been pain; many souls where there has been dark­
ness; many minds where there has been confusion.
That love, light and life shall stand there, giving
the assistance long after you have hastened back to
your loved ones in this world of form.
Before I close, I would like to speak briefly to
you on the Elemental Kingdom with which you
are primarily concerned during this class. I was
trained for My service to life in holding the
"Immaculate Concept” for the Master Jesus in the
Nature Temples. Therefore, I can speak with
some certain authority upon this subject. My feel­
ing of that authority I wish to charge into your
feeling worlds before I leave you today.
The nature of the Elemental Kingdom is to
mirror that which It sees. It immediately becomes
that which It looks upon! After We (some other
maidens and I) were trained, we were given eight
or ten small Elementals to teach. The first ex­
perience We had was that, as We appeared before
our little audience, every Elemental there immedi­
ately looked just like Us! It was like looking into
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 201
a mirror and seeing eight or ten replicas of Our­
selves. Each of Us had this experience. At first,
We did not realize what was happening. I
thought within Myself: “I guess they have given
me Elementáis to teach who have an affinity to
Me and that We are all more or less alike because
that is the harmonious way to work".
I proceeded for many months under that as­
sumption!
Then I began to realize that, if I came in pink,
they were all in pink, too! If I came in blue, they
were all in blue also! If I wore a wreath of flowers
in My hair, they all had exact wreaths of flowers
in theirs! I began to think that through and I said
to Myself: “Now, either there are no beings here
and I am externalizing into maya My Own form,
or there is something wrong with what I am trying
to do”.
Beloved hearts, in this work you must learn to
think! You are given just a hint, let us say, of the
entire scheme and you must develop i t T o some
you can give an experience and they will develop
it; others still sit with the same “kernel” of Truth
at the close of life and nothing has come forth in
the Avay of flower or fruit. However, if you have
determined to get somewhere on the Path of Life,
you will begin to examine the experiences you
have. So I did.
From then on. I carefully watched the response
of the Elemental Kingdom. I learned then that it
was Their nature to mirror that which They saw.
202 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
Well, what had They seen here but just an inex­
perienced girl, accomplishing nothing? It came
to Me then: "You are not teaching! You are just
mirroring yourself in a lot of tiny beings; you are
just duplicating that which you are. Now, why
don't you create for them something They can
fashion? Make it interesting for Them—make this
form you create more powerful than yourself and
let yourself sort of "fade away" until the personal
self is no more and the Elementáis are then able
to create a flower, piece of fruit or whatever it is
that will be of benefit to the Kingdom which They
serve”.
I chose something simple that would be of
beauty and use on this planet Earth, the “Maiden­
hair” fern. It is still growing here on Earth today
and was a gift to your planet from God through
My consciousness. That day I stopped before I
entered the Temple and I said to Myself: “Mary,
You must decrease now, so that this form (the
fern) which you have created in thought and feel­
ing, may increase and be the predominant figure
before the attention of these Elementáis. You will
know whether it is You or Your service which is
greatest by the reaction of these little mirrors
here”.
I held that “Maiden-hair” fern which I had
created before My tiny audience and I endeavored
to let Myself just ‘fade out”, impressing that form’
on their little consciousnesses. The happiest mo­
ment of My life at that time was when they ceased
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 203
to be "little Marys” and began to be the embodi­
ment of the form which I had designed for Them.
I knew then that in that was Their mastery.
Now, why do I tell you this? 1 tell it, not be­
cause My life is of any particular importance to
any other being, but because you are now (or soon
will be) dealing with the forces of Nature all
around you. You are now dealing with a world
which is in the process of decay. You can believe
this or not. You are dealing with the water ele­
ment, with earth and air! What is that Elemental
life going to do when it sees turmoil and fear? It
will just magnify, mirror and increase that turmoil
and destructive creation, unless it can see mastery,
control and balance; You know, even with an
angry animal, how it will act when it “smells” fear.
However, when there is serenity and mastery
present, the animal creation recedes and the love
principle acts!
When you have anything unusual happen (you
don’t even have to go out of the room to prove
this) —an unexpected sound, the dropping of some
article, or something of that nature, there is a
shock to the emotional body. What do you think
it would be like if you were to have a trembling of
the Earth; the rising of a tidal wave; or, perhaps,
tremendously destructive cataclysmic activity?
What do you think that would be like in the
masses of people who have no conscious knowledge
of the Law; no spiritual training; no discipline;
little balance and not much control of their en-
204 MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY
ergies? Yet, the Nature Kingdom would mirror
the feelings of those people! Suppose there were
ten million people filled with fear. Add to that
the energy swirling in the atmosphere where cata­
clysmic activity has already begun and you will
have all that distress mirrored in the oceans, in
the air and in the earth as well! If you have a few
—only a few— who can decrease the personal self
and hold the same mastery Jesus did when He
stood in that boat on the Sea of Galilee and com­
manded It to be still—THEN YOU CAN
HANDLE TH E ENERGIES OF TH E NA­
TURE KINGDOM!
The Nature Kingdom always knows Its master!
However, if there is no Master in a city; if there
is no Master in a nation or on the planet; the
Elementáis will follow the patterns of the masses
because They will mirror and outpicture that
which They see, THINK THIS THROUGH!
Think it through, beloved ones, and become
friends with the Forces of the Elements. Be
positive in your desire for Mastery; be prepared
to be Master of your own energies and Master of
all the energies you contact in the world about
you!
As the heloved Kwan Yin continues Her ser­
vice, I hope you will dedicate and consecrate the
decree class you intend to hold tonight to the
Forces of the Elements, getting a warmth of feel­
ing for them; a feeling of friendliness and a con­
sciousness of Their presence. If you will give a
THOUGHT-FORMS OF BLESSING 205
few hours of your life—not in tension or fear—
but in the release of happy energy (for happy en­
ergy is the only kind that will connect with the
Elementáis in the first place) you can render a
great service.
Beloved ones, having taken much of your time
this morning, I give you My love—the love of a
Mother for Her children; the love of My blessed
Jesus Who will speak to you on Sunday; the love
of Holy Lord Maitreya Who guarded and guided
both Jesus and Myself; the love of John (Who
was, despite His statement to the contrary the
other evening here) a strength and a comfort.
Every wish I had (even before it was expressed)
He always tried to fulfill. On every occasion where
1 required help, John always stood by. Truly, He
was love.
T o you, dear heart friends whom I knew in
Judea; to you with whom I broke bread; to you
who walked with Me and Our beloved Master
Jesus; who accepted and enjoyed the glorious
Resurrection morning; Who walked up the Hill
of Bethany and saw His shining radiance in the
atmosphere; to you—a happy and a holy Easter!
God is with you until We meet again!
PUBLICATIONS
€
"THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM"
"THE SEVENTH BAY"
BY ITS CHOHAN, THE ASCENDED MASTER SAINT CERMAIN
per copy ...................................................... $3.00
(Information and initruction on the great Connie Ray into which
the Earth it now entering. Each Ray is sustained for a period of
2000 years. While the Seventh Ray is active, the use of the
Violet Fire of Mercy and Compassion is released to the people
at large. This ia a most unusual and practical blessing to all.)
"ARCHANGEL MICHAEL, HIS WORK AND HIS HELPERS"
BY THE ARCHANGEL MICHAEL HIMSELF . .per copy $1.50
(If read thoughtfully and alncerely, this book releases tangible
currents of Divine Love in its full protective power from this
transcendent Being—the Archangel of Protection. One's attention
upon the words of this Archangel connects them permanently
with His protective power.)
"THE FIRST RAY"
BY ITS CHOHAN. EL MORYA ....................................per copy $3.00
(His strength, courage and power of accompliihment are radiated
into the world of every reader permanently. El Morya it the great
Ascended Master Who is the Representative of the Will of God to
mankind and all in this Universe. Much instruction on the use of
the Law to free one's self from limitations is given here also.)
"THE SEVEN GREAT ARCHANGELS SPEAK"
BY THE SEVEN ARCHANGELS THEMSELVES . . per copy $4.00
(Each of the Seven Archangels represents one of the virtues of
the Godhead, such as Protection, Illumination, Adoration, etc.
This book contains a personal address from each of these Great
Beings, showing the reader how to use these virtues for their
"MEMOIRS OF BELOVED MARY, MOTHER OF JESUS"
(Heretofore Unchronicled)
BY BELOVED MARY HERSELF....................................per copy $5.00
(This book is TRUTH—NOT fiction! It contains actual remi­
niscences of Beloved Mary concerning the experiences of Her final
embodiment on Earth prior to Her Ascension This Is the very
first time Beloved Mary has so opened the Treasure Chest of
Her heart to mankind.)
"SEVEN STEPS TO PRECIPITATION" (This book In preparation)
BY THE SEVEN MIGHTY ELOH1M
(Each of the Seven Mighty Elohim has given an address in this
book. Each Elohim represents one of the steps ta Precipitation—the
science of drawing substance and energy into form. The personal
assistance of the Elohim will enter the world of any and all who
sincerely study this book. It Is interesting in ths extreme, and
practical tool)
CODE OF CONDUCT:
BY THE BELOVED MAHA CHOHAN per copy *1.00
(Beautifully mounted on heavy paper, eultable for framing. Thi*
giver the "Code of Conduct” eeeentlal to one who deairea to
become a di.clple of the Holy Spirit.)
MONTHLY JOURNAL:
"THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM”
(Our little magazine
Single yearly subscriptions.
Elsewhere
ed Meste
r of Life
U. S. and Canada
tion. encouragement
is practical instruc-
desire to live more
*4.00
*5.00
BI-MONTHLY JOURNAL:
“HOPE” (6 issue, per year)
(This magazine is designed to bring you "H” (health); "O"
(Opulence); “P" (peace); "E" (enlightenment). You will find its
pages bringing you a “lift" in your feelings. Written particularly
for those starting on the Path of Truth. I
MUSIC FOLDER: containing 3 original melodios and lyrlt*
ADORATION TO BELOVED MASTER SAINT GERMAIN
ADORATION TO THE VIOLET FIRE
AMERICA—NOW FR E E .......................................Price of folder *2.00
For any and all of the above, please write to
THE BRIDGE TO FREEDOM, INC., P. O. BOX 335, Philadelphia S, Pa.
BOOKLETS:
(There Is a complete Ascen
SET 1
By: Beloved Archangel Michael
Belov 1 Jeaua and Mary
ided Master address in each booklet.)
SET 2
By: Beloved Paul, the Venetian
Beloved Pallas Athena and
SET 3
By: Beloved Saint Gei
Beloved Maha Cl
Beloved Michael Archangel of By: Beloved h
Beloved Michael (On relation- Yin
ship of angelic, elemental “ * y”""
and human kingdoms) Beloved Venus
These booklets sold only in sets of 4. Each set .................. *2.00
fPlease order "Booklets" from Discourse Distribution Service,
P. O. Box No. 5, Flourtown, Pa.)
WEEKLY RELEASE:
"THE BULLETIN”—ESOTERIC TEACHINGS FROM OUR LORD MAHA
CHOHAN (Available only to Bridge Subscribers).
For information write "The Bulletin", P. O. Box 5, Flourtown, Pa.
(Prices subject to change without notice)
