{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nt_nde.html","mytitle":"NT NDE 3770","mylang":"de"}
          	        NT NDE 3770  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					NT NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1761 NT NDE 3770  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with my boyfriend at the time, and we were strangling each other during sex, which was one of his fetishes. I remember he was on top of me, and we were already having sex. He put his hands on my throat and squeezed my throat, and I felt like I was dizzy and on my way to passing out a few times, when I really did pass out. The last thing I saw was his face and arms, and the ceiling behind him, seemed to zoom away from my field of vision and disappear into blackness, as if I just fell down a well, although I did not have the sensation of falling yet. When I couldn't see him anymore, I saw only black, and had a vague feeling that I was tumbling through the blackness.

I lost orientation to what was up and down, and what direction I was falling in, but I knew I was falling. After a little while, I 'sensed' that I was upright (though everything was still all black) and that I was 'falling forward.' I was moving fast, at the same speed of the perceived free fall from earlier, but I was upright and moving forward. I was trying to see in the blackness to get my bearings, and to see what I was heading towards. I remember being vaguely worried that I would 'hit the ground and die,' but that this was unlikely since I was falling sideways. I started to see this green light far off into the distance, and I was curious at first, and a little bit relieved that I could finally see something. Then when the light was coming closer, I got scared of the source of light. I had a vague feeling it was evil. I remember thinking of something like the source of light was Cthulu (even though I am not really a cult follower or anything like that). I fell forward and upright, faster and faster to it, and got more terrified of the green light.

Then I started to relax and think maybe whatever or whoever it was had something to tell me. By the time I was close enough to make out that the green light was an orb, covered with appendages of some kind, I was anxious to see more of what it looked like. Then suddenly I woke up, and my boyfriend was slapping my face and shaking me. He said I was out for just a few seconds, but I felt I just woke up from a twenty minute dream.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Sex related asphyxiation  Other 'Asphyxiation play during sex, when I lost consciousness. I am not sure how life threatening this was.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It seemed equal, except for the disorientation during the first part of the 'fall.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Disorientation of direction, thought I was gone for twenty minutes, when it was just a few seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see 'farther.' When I was falling, the image of my boyfriend stayed clear until it disappeared. When I was falling forward, I felt I could see details from far away, but that the glowing light obscured some.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The fall felt like a fall through a tunnel, but this is only clued in from the visual of my boyfriend getting farther and farther away.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I saw the creature that was the green glowing orb with appendages. I didn't know them. They were floating in the blackness. They didn't communicate with me, but seemed to be waiting for me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Green, from far away, and maybe it was a big round ball or orb, that had some kind of appendages all over it, like limbs or tentacles- but more limbs I think.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     blackness

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, curiosity, calm, confusion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   vaguely agnostic.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   vaguely agnostic.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It involved sensations that I was spinning, or falling, but there was no visual stimuli to cue me into it. I could only feel if I was upright or tumbling based on equilibrium sensed in my head, and sometimes the direction of the 'wind.'

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sleep paralysis with hallucinations, that my friends think were ghosts. Also have been told I might be able to astral project, by a friend and a schizophrenic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the green thing might have been evil or neutral. It was not 'good.' I don't know what it means that I was afraid of it at first, and then I really wanted to see it to see what it had to say.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after, I told my boyfriend. No.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Some vague generic understanding that it involved tunnels with light at the end. I watched 'flat liners' too, years previous.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I think it's just neurological activity when blood and air gets cut off from my brain, along with some imagination influenced by culture. But anything is possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       There should be more questions about any negative experiences with this. Many of the questions tended to point to only positive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nt_nde.html