{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nurse_patient_nde.html","mytitle":"Nurse's Patient's NDE 9640","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nurse's Patient's NDE 9640  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nurse's Patient's NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Second-Person NDE  						5206 Nurse's Patient's NDE 9640  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was an RN at a teaching hospital. The patient was a young female in her 40's. She came to emergency room in cardiac arrest. She was transferred to cath lab almost immediately. She had almost a full blockage of her left main and LAD. Cath was uneventful. I can't remember  stents were in the room because they  were just coming into medicine.  I was her nurse in the ICU. 

  She was awake and  oriented, so I was about  to go get her family when she grabbed the back of my scrubs as I was walking away. I turned around and she barely got the words out saying, 'Something isn't right.' She went into Vfib.  I started CPR and called the team. Once the team arrived, I switched roles, to documenting what was happening while I was at the foot of bed. A respiratory therapist intubated her, a medical student was bagging, and two other nurses at the crash cart while another  was administering medications and IV drips. The pharmacist arrived and stood in doorway. He yelled at us  to let him know what a drug dealer can do for them. As you know, these are stressful situations and the medical teams joke around. I am a known punster and the lead doctor was starting to use puns to make the situation less stressful. I do not remember the specific puns, but this joking went on throughout the rest of the code. 

  I switched my role to CPR, and the medical student took over documentation.

  I looked down at the patient saying, 'Come back! You are way too young' and 'I'm not going to let you die on my watch!' 

  She eventually developed a pulse and was in critical care for a few days. She kept trying to write something, but was too swollen. When she was extubated, she said she had out of body experience. I  shrugged it off and said, 'I am glad you came back.' The next morning, I took care of her again. She asked if she could tell me her experience. To say I was floored was an understatement. 

  She said she was at the top of the ceiling with a childhood friend. She told me where every single person was standing in the operating room. She said that she was groaning at our obnoxious puns and was trying to tell us how bad they were. Her friend told her, 'That is how these types deal with stress.' She told me to  come up with better jokes. She did not remember all of them, but repeated a few. She said her friend was leading her to a soothing light and she felt her body floating towards it. She said they started to go and then  heard me yelling at her not to die on my watch. She thinks that was when she was no longer floating and when her pulse came back. 

  Later, she  started calling the pharmacist a drug dealer because of what she heard.  This experience totally changed how I care for these patients.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1987  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related. Heart attack.  CPR given.     Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was the nurse who took care of woman who had this experience. It changed my whole perspective of nursing care for comatose, vegetative conditions and cardiovascular arrest situations.   The pPatient was recovering from a cardiac catheterization and arrested shortly after arriving in the ICU  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  seeing her childhood friend and the light.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I can't answer fully but it sounded as if there was heightened awareness of the situation  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       speaking with my friend  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     same as previous answer just heightened awareness  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    sounded as if she was able to hear everyone's statements,  despite everyone talking at same time  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   bright soothing light with halo  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At peace, very excited to interact with her friend  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     care of my patients  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     interacting with a deceased childhood friend  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?              

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the time of the experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain             				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nurse_patient_nde.html