{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ns_c_nde.html","mytitle":"NS C NDE 4628  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE due to cardiac arrest. Some atypical elements in experience - might be due to some extent to language issues.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        NS C NDE 4628  		  		  		  		  		NDE due to cardiac arrest. Some atypical elements in experience - might be due to some extent to language issues.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					NS C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2342 NS C NDE 4628  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was afternoon and I had a different type of oxygen supply to my body. I lived in a big apartment at that time in a little town with my wife. My wife told me that she would call me every hour and if I did not answer, she would send an ambulance immediately. My mom is not and was never told about this life-threatening event. I was home because I had taken two days off from my work at company (engineering, computer structures), because I began to lose my consciousness to a lesser extent at my work the day before. This day was my first day at home and it was after lunch. I felt tired and smoked a cigarette to ease tiredness. After that, I went to my bed, with a different breath that I was unfamiliar with. I fell asleep and passed away.

Then, I was raised out of my bed. I met a kind of CEO or executive director (like in a company) and others, I was not allowed to see my life review, they scrolled my life review behind me to the left, but I could see the lights from it a little in my surroundings, very kind of them. I got a smile from God a little later.

The thing next was that God and those others disappeared away, and they dragged before me a place, there was a boundary and I got to the boundary I was allowed get a little inside. I saw kindness and familiarity in the most convenient way. There were no humans for me to meet in that world, no animals and no insects, only plants, the green things. There were mountains with snow, pure things, many things to do; I loved the world they wanted to give me, very kind of them. After I had been a little while, there I turned back to my body and life.

I came back to my body in a hospital on intensive care for brain, heart and lungs.

Today I have another work, and I do not smoke any more, I am satisfied with my work and life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan-2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Heart attack  'Brain-dead, heart-dead, deceased breathing.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I just died; I just went brain dead, no heart and lung function any more to.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Same consciousness all the time, not very much.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Same consciousness all the time, not very much.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The older man was a sort of executive director and the others, I do not remember those others from anywhere in the life I had lived, I did not even recognize them there, they were new to me during my experience. The older boss was new to me not the one I had worshipped in my life back later or lately before my death. I thought I would meet one billion souls and a God on a throne.  But I only met four souls and the older man in a beard. The older man in a beard looked like Osama Bin Laden, like the one that was a leader in Al Q'da in life, I recognized him in some features.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Se above.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotions at all, no pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was not allowed to directly look at my life review, very kind of them, but I understood that I had nothing to learn from my life in my life review. After they had seen my life review the older man gave me a smile.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I left Christian religion 3 years before my experience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am not Muhammadan but one deceased oil-sheik from Middle East came to me to be a guide to me. Very kind of him.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not Muhammadan but one deceased oil-sheik from Middle East came to me to be a guide to me. Very kind of him.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I am a man in sex and body and mind and I shall be with the opposite sex and bodies and minds (with Girls), forever in Infinity. Not with men.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Only a different relationship to others. A different view on other humans. Nothing strange about this new view on other humans. I have left my mother and perhaps my deceased father completely and my sisters and all my biological relatives except my brother. But now I have two cute wives.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I can have a sense of things that will happen. My IQ/EQ level must have risen because things that were so difficult before are so easy now, like understanding other human beings, and seeing life in the human body terms. To rule a region, build cities, to be a politician to be a male human.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nothing special.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was with my wife one month later. I do not want my mom to know about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have been on the internet and read stories from others that have died, their NDEs, and seen movie clips on the internet.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real with no return because my atomic body was in the bed, and me, the soul human body was out of that bed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ns_c_nde.html