{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1norma_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Norma H NDE 3031","mylang":"de"}
          	        Norma H NDE 3031  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Norma H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1076  Norma H NDE  3031  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was the only one in my car that hydroplaned and slid sideways into the path of an oncoming car, which hit my car in the passenger-side front door. I heard the crash and some screams, then immediately I was in a different place. There was an older woman on my right side who was 'escorting' me, or 'introducing' me to this new realm. The very air was of a golden-peach color, and I heard music of a genre I'd never heard before, and couldn't identify the instruments playing the music. Some distance away from us, I saw a large group of people who were facing us, and I 'knew' they were there to welcome me. I felt such peace and joy. Suddenly, I was told mentally that I would be returned to life for another 'season.' It was then that I heard a distant voice calling me. I definitely did not want to return to the earth plane, but the voice kept calling me. It was an employee from a nearby store who was beside my door, saying, 'Miss, are you alright? Miss, are you alright?'

In the emergency room, the doctor (a lady) asked me if I'd blacked out at the scene. I told her that I had not blacked out, I'd been somewhere else. This was something she didn't comprehend, and rather curtly told me that I had blacked out.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    05-11-1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .  After automobile accident, I was unconscious for a short period of time, during which my NDE occurred.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Seeing the golden atmosphere and hearing the music.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Seeing the golden atmosphere and hearing the music.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I could only have been unconscious for less than a minute, but I felt I spent more time than that in this other place, but not an inordinately long time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I could clearly see everything around me, although I didn't turn and look behind me. I have very poor vision in my left eye, but it seems this was not the case in the NDE.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The communication from my escort was telepathic. I didn't hear her voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     This was such a short NDE, but I didn't know the woman who was escorting me. I didn't recognize anyone in the crowd that I was facing, but that didn't seem to be important. I just felt loved and welcomed.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was only in the one place with the golden/peach atmosphere, which was unworldly, and beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Curiosity, peace, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Not a physical barrier, like a gate or a fence, but rather a boundary of distance from me to the crowd. If it were an earthly experience, I would say the distance was about fifty feet. I thought that if I'd been allowed to stay, the distance would have been closed, but I didn't connect it with any meaning. I felt I just wasn't given enough time to follow through with the experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   'Not religious, but spiritual'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  When losing a loved one to 'death' I no longer grieve, except for the loss of their presence in my life. I can be happy knowing they are most definitely in a better place. So, it makes dealing with death easier.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       For one, I felt no physical pain during the collision and ensuing NDE. Secondly, I felt certain that the spirit survives the body's death. My sister-in-law had been killed in 1981 in a head-on collision, and I was able to assure my family that she didn't suffer.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Immediately told the doctor, but soon learned this was something others might not want to hear. I did tell my mother within days, and other family members. I later told various close friends, and most recently told my older brother (in the last month, or so). He was surprised to hear it, but we have similar beliefs and I felt he believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Since the late 1960s, I've had a strong desire to learn about many subjects considered extra-sensory, or spiritual. Have read many books, and this would be where I read about such things, although I can't remember a specific book.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I believed it was real because of the emotional quality, the sensory qualities, as well as my belief of an afterlife for the spirit.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     In remembering this experience, I can still recall the details as if it happened last week, and they still feel real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I don't respond well to questions dealing with 'religion,' because although I faithfully attended church, Sunday School, and other church events until I was thirty years old, I consider that time spent more religious. The time spent since, has been more spiritual, although that's not to say there wasn't spirituality involved with the church.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1norma_h_nde.html