{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nora_nde.html","mytitle":"Nora NDE 3843","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nora NDE 3843  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nora NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1813 Nora NDE 3843  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was over at my cousin's house for a pool party; I remember everything that happened so vividly. First my older cousins and everyone else that was swimming left, until it was just me and my five or six year old cousin left in the pool. The nannies were off to the side talking. I was in the shallow end. Next thing you know, I look up and my cousin was holding onto a large bouncy ball in the deep end. At the time, I was a good swimmer, but I had zero lifeguarding skills. The nannies didn't know how to swim, so I swam over to him. He let go of the ball and climbed on to my back and I started swimming to the edge. It was really hard because he was being frantic and jumping up and down on my back. The whole time I kept thinking, 'I have to get to the edge.' I heard no noise. I was focused, but he kept jumping and I kept going under. I made it to the edge but by then I was sinking. I felt a weight lifted off my back. It was the nanny picking up my cousin but she couldn't get me and she didn't know how to swim.

I felt like the whole world stood still. I didn't feel hard of breath, I felt calm. Next thing I know, I feel my spirit lifted from by body - more specifically by my shoulders. I looked up and the whole ceiling (the pool was indoors) was this gorgeous white light, as if a portal, I felt drawn to it in a way. At the time, I was looking down and could see my cousin standing and the nannies frantically talking. 'What should we do?' they said in Hindi but I understood it (I don't speak Hindi). At the time it felt weird I could see down at them but at the same time, I could see the tiles and the water around me in the pool as if they were all one. I remember looking down and having my whole life explained, to feeling the love of the people in my life, and most of all feeling like I had a choice to live. The light was hypnotic, persuading you to enter but the feeling of love felt stronger. I said no word but I felt and the feeling of someone holding me by the shoulders was gone, it felt like a hand letting go, dropping me.

At that precise moment, the nanny holding onto the guardrail jumped in and grabbed me by the hair pulling me, I felt no pain - I felt still in a surreal state. Next thing I know, I'm on the floor breathing, looking up at the sky, and seeing it go from white and back to normal. I remember that feeling when I first got out of the water and I felt my heart beat or start beating.  It's a feeling that I can't explain, but I really do feel I had a second chance and whenever I get mad at my parents or the people around me I remember that day and I remember that feeling of how they felt about me, and I just can't stay mad. True story. No embellishments I promise.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  I can't remember

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    I drowned trying to save my cousin life ( which I did )  Other I'm not sure but I know for a fact I stopped breathing.  I drowned I wasn't breathing, my heart stopped and when I woke up outside the pool I felt it restarting again, it was in one word, strange.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was floating in the air.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating in the air.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I can't it's hard but everything felt lighter and I could see people moving but for me time stood still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well I have 20/20 but my vision was strange I could almost see the feeling of the people in the room that is something I can't explain.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing but strangely I knew what everyone was saying.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Ghostly no, but only the people on the ground and I don't know if this counts, I didn't see any ghosts but I felt angels lifting me by my shoulders.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Well the light was so beautiful it consumed the whole ceiling and overflowed slightly towards the corners, drawing me in.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I felt love, my parents travel a lot and I never knew them that well, I didn't know how they felt about me but after that day I felt like I knew them and I felt their love I know it sounds gushy but it's the truth.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I never remembering knowing what would happen but when it did I knew as if by déjà vu, I can't explain it. I would have dreams that I know I had but can't remember then something would happen and I'd feel I would remember seeing what I saw knowing what people around me would say before they said it, it's in one word, strange. I hope that make's sense to you.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a lot more liberal I know what I believe and no one can change that I'm more open, and a lot more liberal to things.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a lot more liberal I know what I believe and no one can change that I'm more open, and a lot more liberal to things.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge about myself and things that make no sense but knowledge.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was a child so my mind changed I re-evaluated quickly changing the way I saw things and felt about people ever since that day I could feel people what they were truly feeling even if I was a thousand miles away.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I've told a few friends, but most of them seem to be very close minded and the feelings during the experience are very hard to put out in words they were surreal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could sense if a spirit was around me, I wouldn't necessarily see it but I could feel it and if I concentrated I would see the spirit but not all partials in a way.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part where I felt nothing, it came before the peace, and the nothing to me was a lot more peaceful than the comforting feeling of peace. It sounds weird but the nothing came just before the rising, before the light, but not by much. It was a second of nothing, no memories, no pain, and no nothing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Depends, some stories years, others weeks, but they never seemed to believe, they either laughed or gave me that you're crazy look. For a while I didn't believe what happened till I read it happened to someone else that everything started unraveling.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I don't know you go back to your normal routine things stop plus I felt like I couldn't tell anyone because my aunt said if I told my parents they'd never let me swim again and I knew she was right so I didn't say anything. It passed till I remembered once again as if it was yesterday burned into my memory every second.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I know it happened to someone else. I've met people like me, so I know now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't know I don't use meds so I can't tell.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In a hectic life like mine remembering that day always calms me down makes me feel at peace and a lot more clear headed like I can handle any problem and make it better.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Umm, I can't think of anything sorry.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nora_nde.html