{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nona_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Nona M NDE 959","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nona M NDE 959  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nona M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						444  Nona M NDE  959  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I rode a bicycle. I felt very good.  Then, the first truck almost touches me. I feel the danger and a second one arrives. I feel a hit at the back of my head. I am thinking that I must not fall.  But I lose my balance and I do fall.  Then I feel my spine taking a second hit.  At that moment, I know.  I feel my nervous system is losing it.  I am mad at myself over what happened as it is my fault. I first fall in a kind of waterhole with my feet forward.


Then I decide to take the path towards death, with the light at the end. I think of my life and my family.  My son of five years old appears.  He is an angel who smiles at me.  How will he be doing without his father? I have to climb up, but I cannot.  A hand grabs me. I don’t see a face, yet he helps me to turn my head upwards where life is.  I climb up and get out.


This story of me as a cyclist of Friday 13 in the department 13 at the milestone number 13 in front of a farm that has the same name as the town where I was born shall circulate through all the neighboring villages and often leaves me thoughtful.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    13.06.2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  je roulais en velo  accroché  par un camion a deux reprise   fracture vertebrale trauma cranien  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I thought in the beginning I was going to die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very good.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The hand that was offered to me.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Can’t be explained.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nona_m_nde.html