{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1norberto_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Norberto Possible NDE 7657","mylang":"de"}
          	        Norberto Possible NDE 7657  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Norberto Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3931 Norberto Possible NDE 7657  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an automobile accident.  Three days later, according to my social worker, the doctors told me they could operate to attempt to straighten the bone at the bridge of the nose, which had been broken in the impact. I agreed to this and they started to get me ready for surgery.  When everything was OK, they took me to the operating room.  I remember as they started to inject me, they were joking among themselves.  After receiving the anesthesia, I remember nothing more about that place.  I have mentioned to you that they had said to me the anesthesia was local, but I don't remember anything about the Operating Room, just that which I have already said, before they injected me. Then I began to go through a dark tunnel extremely fast.  I wanted to cling to the sides but it was impossible.  Just then, I started to slow down.  I saw beautiful coloured lights on the sides.  Below, appeared a very strong white light, to which I drew near.  Almost as if in slow motion, I was floating and feeling a deep peace.  It was a beautiful sensation of tranquility.  I arrived at this light that was so intense it was almost blinding.  I went through the light.  Arriving was like a toboggan ride.  I sat down.  By my side, were two people dressed totally in white.  They reminded me of a planning board.  They looked at everyone who arrived in this place, which was like a holding room to another portal, while they wrote on this board.  They were all dressed in white.  These two, were a man with a neat beard which was well-trimmed and a woman with short well- trimmed hair.  They wore white garments as if in uniform.  All the time people were passing by us.  Once or twice they looked at me.  Then, it was as if they were grabbing me by the shoulders while still looking at me.  That was the last I remember before returning to myself in the post- surgical room. What I do remember is I had a peace that I never felt before.  It was a sensation of well-being. I had no memories, nor did I see anything bad.  I didn't see dead people.  I was just in a very beautiful state. Then I found myself in the post-operation room visited by many medics.  They said the surgery would take between 20 and 40 minutes; nevertheless, I was in the operating room for 4 hours and they could give no explanation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I had a road accident in which I violently hit another car.  But I only had a blow to the nose, which was the reason for rhino-plasty during which the experience occurred. I have already mentioned that the surgery was three days afterwards and I had no risks or post-operative problems.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was totally normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was totally normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through the tunnel very rapidly.  In the middle of the tunnel, when I got nearer to the light, the size of the tunnel grew less.  I saw lovely beautiful colours, and in the end there was a very bright white light.  The nearer I got to the light, the more peace I felt.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was terribly strong and blinding-bright at the end of the tunnel, into which I went.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was as if it was a transit room, with high ceilings that welcomed people and with another door where they continued their journey. A board on a wall which was used by two people (one man and one woman).

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was something very beautiful and very peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt like they were asking, 'What are you doing here?' After a while, they returned me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   The two people that were welcoming people wore mystical, supernatural clothes and they used a board on a wall.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It was as if these two people register the passing of people who arrived.  But they decided to return me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I feel that when we die we will feel peace.     I feel that when we die we will feel peace.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        A beautiful feeling of peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It would be one year later.  Then I thought the experience was due to the anaesthesia.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I saw that many people had exactly the same experience as me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very experiential and very congruent with other accounts.  Also, there was the delay in the operating room.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The doctors never told me anything that happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The attitude of the doctors.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1norberto_possible_nde.html