{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1niles_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Niles R NDE 1054","mylang":"de"}
          	        Niles R NDE 1054  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Niles R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						474  Niles R NDE  1054  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was approximately 14-15 years old, in a summer camp and we were playing a game, which I thought innocuous at that time (a monitor even took part) but which, in fact, is really fatal (a variant of the ‘scarf’s game’ which takes a tragic turn in playgrounds).


The game consisted in breathing out, in a repetitive and forced way (like a breathless dog) during 1 to 2 minutes, to raise at one go and a ‘partner’ pressed on my carotid. I lost consciousness during 2-3 minutes and made me awoke by being given slaps on the face.


It’s at that time that I had a life review. I don’t remember any more about how I reached this state (out of body experience, tunnel, …) but I remember me seeing like a summary of my stay in this summer camp with the full possibility of choosing to let the events pass or to dwell on them, with an external point of view, as if I could fly around those last events. The whole, in a feeling of well-being. It seemed to me that time was different from reality because I could go again in much of situations in a short time.


Then I awoke, a little bit groggy by this experience, but feeling good about myself.


For sure, I forget some details because it’s not new and at that time, this event intrigued me; but up to now, I never took time to ask me more questions. Today, I realize that this experience could have had a tragic turn. Of course, I don’t encourage anybody to do it because there is a real danger of death! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1992

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Jeu (idiot et dangereux) en groupe.   Anoxie cérébrale par expirations forcées répétées + pression sur carotide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don’t remember this, but it was possible for me to fly as in a ‘space time’, to go again through some situations from my past, but all this from an above space point. I especially remember to see the different places I went through. On the other hand, my playmates were, for sure, probably there but I don’t remember to see myself appearing in those moments from the past.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don’t remember very well, it was different from reality, for sure. But maybe I had the possibility to move in my past only by thinking about it.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was possible for me to fly as in a ‘space time’, to go again through some situations from my past, from an above space point.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I am not sure. I mainly remember different places I went through. On the other hand, my playmates were, for sure, probably there but I don’t remember to see myself appearing in those moments from the past.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     Only places related to this summer camp. Besides, I have a strong memory of the moment when I could fly over the tennis courts where we played.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Not really, that always intrigued me but not more.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: to be able to fly and review my actions from the past, in a feeling of well-being. The worse: I could have die playing this stupid game.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1niles_r_nde.html