{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1noemi_gv_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Noemi GV Possible NDE 7471","mylang":"de"}
          	        Noemi GV Possible NDE 7471  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Noemi GV Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3821 Noemi GV Possible NDE 7471  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went into hospital for surgery for chronic amygdalitis.  I was in the operating theatre and talking to the nurses and the doctor, they gave me an injection in the arm, of something, and I slept.  [Editor’s Note: Amygdalitis is an acute inflammation of the emotional centre of the brain.] 

After the surgery but before waking, I walked into a dark tunnel.  The tunnel was made of earth. I was wearing my white frilly dress and girl’s tights. I was braiding my hair into two braids, yet never saw my face.  Suddenly, I don't know how, there appeared in front of me a tall slim man with a white trailing tunic that reached the floor.  I never saw his feet.  His hair was shiny, limp, and fell to his shoulders. I never saw his face because we both were looking in front of us. As he took me by the hand, I noticed that the skin on his hands was very white.  

Just then, I woke up. The nurse was injecting something into my veins to stabilize my body.  I was cold, so cold.  They wrapped me in blankets to warm me. I chatted with my parents and I slept. 

The anesthetic had harmed me, although I really don't know what happened. In all the years, I have never been able to forget this experience.  I remember perfectly every day as if it had happened today. 

As the years pass, strange things happen.  I see people, but they don't harm me or frighten me.  I don't know why.  I pray for their blessed souls.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Surgery-related.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Straight after I was there, up to when I awoke in the hospital bed.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   I have never thought about time, just being there is everything.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was so real as if I was really there. I wasn't ever frightened at all by the man who took my hand, we never spoke and I just came back and woke up.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was very peaceful.  There was no sound there, was no fear, no hatred or anything: just peace.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I don't know how I arrived at the tunnel but I was inside it, and remember it was dark. I saw myself walking towards the front of the tunnel; I never saw the end. Then from nowhere came this very tall slim man with a white tunic that trailed on the floor, so I couldn't see his feet, his black shiny hair fell to his shoulders, and with his white hands, he took me by the hands.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Only peace, I felt only peace, tranquility and no pain, no hate, no resentment, no sadness, it was only peace and I was well.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Fue inconsiente porque nunca  pensé ni planeó estar en ese túnel y con ese señor.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I should try to give the best of me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Si el señor y yo de  como si yo lo conociera.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     No lo sé.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     El señor que me dio su mano era  bueno y yo le di mi mano yo confíe en el . Porque no lo sé solo se que el era bueno y tenía paz. Nunca lo he olvidado .

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     El señor creo que me estimaba porque me dio su mano como para protegerme y me regresó nunca hablamos ni se escuchó un ruido.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.  During my childhood my life changed, I suffered a lot in my adolescence, but God was always with me and never left me. After many years, Ghosts started to appear, or those that had passed on, but they never frightened me, and I     Large changes in my life.  During my childhood my life changed, I suffered a lot in my adolescence, but God was always with me and never left me. After many years, Ghosts started to appear, or those that had passed on, but they never frightened me, and I pray for the blessing and rest for their souls.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes God gives us life to give of our best.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see the souls of those that have passed away, I pray for them and I see premonitions of things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few days after my operation, but members of my family refused to believe me, saying it was just a dream.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I keep thinking it was real and I can't explain it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The figure of a Christmas Angel, very similar to the gentleman that had helped me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The Gentleman who gave me his hand was good, and I gave him my hand and I trusted him. Why I don't know, I just know he was good and he was peaceful. I have never forgotten him. It was as if the Gentleman and I knew each other. The gentleman, I believe, loved me, because he took me by the hand to protect me and he came back to me; we didn't talk and there wasn't a sound. The content was inconsistent with the beliefs I had, because I never thought or planned that I would be in this tunnel with this gentleman. I remember it as if it had just happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I congratulate you and want to thank you for helping us, and providing an answer to that which we have been through.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1noemi_gv_possible_nde.html