{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nina_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nina S Probable NDE3724","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nina S Probable NDE3724  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nina S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1719 Nina S Probable NDE 3724  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During my operation I found myself standing on the apex of a bend in a tunnel.  The tunnel was metallic. Coming from one end, out of the dark, I saw what looked like meat hooks hanging from a conveyor, which was moving slowly towards the bend and me.  There were gnarled, twisted, burnt looking bodies hanging from the hooks. As I looked to the other end of the tunnel, I could see an incredibly white light, which was so bright it seemed to reflect from the metallic tunnel.  Standing at one side of the tunnel in the light was a figure dressed in white, and so brightly lit that you couldn't make out any features.  I felt this being was a man with long robes.  He was lifting the bodies from the conveyor and taking them into his arms.  

The bodies changed completely as he did this.  They became beautiful - really, really, beautiful - with wondrous, happy smiles on their faces. At this time, I sensed a presence next to me, although it was more like a disembodied voice.  I said to the person that I desperately wanted to go into the light.  He said it was not my time yet and that I still had something to do in my life.  I was dismayed at this.  With almost a little humor in his voice he said, 'Well you can't go there yet, but instead I will tell you the secret of life.  You will forget it when you go back.'  He told me a sentence that made everything in life perfectly clear.  I said to him 'That is so simple!'  He seemed to take pleasure from the enlightenment on my face.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSurgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was having an operation to treat a fractured skull due to an accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to the presence next to me, whilst watching the people/bodies being lifted up by the figure in the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was unable to see the bright figure properly, other than to feel he was in robes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A perfectly rounded, cylindrical and metallic tunnel, which was extremely bright at one end.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The person beside me, although I couldn't see them.  I didn't even try to look at this person/voice as it didn't seem at all necessary to do so.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An extremely bright, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the tunnel

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, yearning, enlightenment and reluctance to go back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That the bright light, the white figure and the entity beside me were good

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my family when I had recovered from my accident. They believed me, and I think my father particularly seemed emotionally touched by the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has stayed with me ever since then, and although it was a long time ago I still remember it very well.  I now know there is more to come when we die.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe I had something else that I had to do.  I hope I have done it, or will do it as expected.  I worry that I took the wrong turns in life and might have missed whatever it was I had to do.  It was maybe as small as just smiling at someone!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nina_s_probable_nde.html