{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nolwenn_nde.html","mytitle":"Nolwenn NDE 6912","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nolwenn NDE 6912  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nolwenn NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3464 Nolwenn NDE 6912  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 14 and was at college.  I remember being at the sports hall at a sports and physical education course. Our Professor wanted to get us through the 'Loger' test to be able to evaluate our physical ability in endurance and running. I have to make clear that I had the will to out-do myself, to impress the other students, as well my Professor. Due to my short size of 5 feet and my slight roundness, I was frequently the target of plenty of harassment. I wanted to prove to everybody what I was capable of doing. I surpassed, brilliantly, all the other girls of my class, expending my last resources from my body.

Finally, satisfied, and feeling really bad, I stopped at the arrival line.  Then, I continued to walk, breathless, lungs on fire and legs like cotton wool. I then got a terrible, hellish headache, an extreme bellyache, and started to stagger. I lost the capacity to breathe and felt my heart rhythm stop. Then in three for four seconds, I felt my physical functions switching off, as if someone would cut them one by one. Falling down, on my side, and seeing for a last moment, my friends sitting at the other end of the sports hall, then losing my vision and hearing : my best friend yelling my name! 

Then, there was complete blackness for a moment, and finally a white whirlwind appearing at the middle of the blackness, aspiring and surrounding me. I felt myself leaving my body and becoming very light. This seemed to last 2 or 3 seconds, then a very intense light at the end of this whirlwind. A light that filled me with IMMENSE happiness, a feeling of peace and infinite Love! Unbelievable, indescribable, simply surreal! Never before nor after had I felt a similar and such a powerful sensation. It filled me from everywhere. 

Then I was propelled by a whirlwind, lightly, and landed upright on my legs, in a vast, grassy plain. It was bright and welcoming, fresh and warm. A wonderful plain, as they only exist in dreams. A light blue sky dotted with little clouds, lightly floating in the sky. Then I saw a long white barrier that separated the plain in two parts. 

On the other side of the barrier a woman in a long white dress was awaiting me, seemingly floating slightly above the ground. She was surrounded by a slight white halo. She had brown, long shoulder-length hair, put back behind her ears. She was completely unknown to me. I couldn't see her face clearly, because it seemed too shiny. She seemed unbelievably happy to see me; she lifted her arm and motioned me to join her at the other side. At her side was a magnificent tree, big and strong, quite dense. He seemed to shelter her. I wanted to join her, still filled with this immense happiness and plenitude, while the whirlwind was still active behind me. 

Suddenly, she seemed terribly sad, and I instantly felt her sadness. She lowered her arm, and also seemed to lower her head. Then I got her thoughts, also instantaneously, directly. She didn't open her mouth and made no sound, but transmitted a message directly through thought. She made me understand that it was not my moment; I had to return to Earth and join my body. I hardly had the time to understand what was going on, and was still walking to go towards her, when the whirlwind again sucked me up, with more violence, and transported me back into my waiting body.

I brutally regained consciousness, opened my eyes immediately while taking a deep breath. I was blinking to be sure that I again had taken possession of my body. I saw my classmates and my friends leaning over me, as well as my sports Professor. They all stared at me, and they looked like they really were afraid for me. The Professor had the idea to put me against the wall, my back on the ground and feet in the air, but it was a bad idea. I again lost consciousness. So I stayed lying down on the ground. I felt very cold, and had the impression that my body was weighing tons! My mind was totally confused and I wasn't sure what had all happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Well, let's say I had a syncopal episode, a normally benign incident but it could bring about complications. At any rate, at this moment, even if I didn't understand very well why, I became unconscious, I really had the impression I was dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When my body was lying on the ground, and my conscience was in the other world, I could hear my friends calling me and asking me to awaken. They were scared, this I felt, especially my best friend at the time, who, I was later told, tried to wake me up by slapping my face. I heard them from the other world where 'I' dwelt, (without my physical body but represented by it) the sound was slightly muffled and seemed to echo. It arrived through the whirling gate that was still active behind me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I arrived in the other world, I had the impression to have a clear increase in my senses, on top of this, to have an absolute knowledge about the whole universe. An unbelievable comprehension, of our Galaxy, of our existence, and of the existence of other life forms, elsewhere.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to pass exactly the same way as on Earth. Which means that I was unconscious for approximately 10 seconds and that all what happened in the other world, as per my feeling, unfolded within a few tenths of seconds, too.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was sharper and more accurate than normal; was able to see farther, even zooming.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Increased. Finer, more accurate, able to better distinguish the sounds surrounding me in the supernatural world. The slight wind, the rustling of grass and the leaves of the tree that nevertheless seemed to be very far away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A whirling two-colored tunnel, black and white. The two colors whirling together in the tunnel. Then a bright light and I arrived on the plain.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light that I saw at the end of this tunnel, just before arriving in the plain, and straight at the moment when I felt the intense happiness and the feeling of Peace. This light seemed almost like an intelligent entity.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, totally. I arrived in a plain, very slightly hilly, separated in two, by a close of white wood, and with this woman and a majestic tree on the other side of this close. The plain seemed to be clearly limited and it ended in the void. It was grassy and of a vivid green color. There was a blue sky and some clouds, floating and moving slowly in the sky that seemed quite low, and that seemed above all false, as if hiding something. I had the sensation that this place was used as a place of welcoming for children or young people and that this environment had been built to reassure and appease them.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Plenty! At the exact moment when I lost consciousness, I felt an intense cold, a progressive disconnection of my muscles, my organs, and my senses. Then I saw this whirlwind, that sucked me up, and then I had, for a few hundreds of a second, a disagreeable feeling of distortion, as if I was elongated and distorted in this whirlwind and finally the living light, and there, I felt full of Peace, Love, Happiness, and an indescribable Power . When I think back at it, tears are coming! It was a magical moment, unbelievable. Emotions as strong and powerful, that I think one cannot feel them on Earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I had the clear sensation of understanding everything, to know everything, not having any questions anymore, and having an immense wisdom. I had the impression to know everything about us, the human beings, but also about all living species of the Earth, and including, those of other galaxies. In fact, I 'knew' that other intelligent beings were existing in the Universe. But this was of no importance, I just knew and that was it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   J'ai été éduquée dans la foie catholique mais je n'ai jamais cru véritablement et j'ai même totalement bannie la spiritualité de mon existence jusqu'à cet accident. Au moment de l'accident, je rejetais toute forme de croyance, en ce qui me concernait, je ne croyais pas et je ne voulais pas croire, de par une enfance agitée et traumatisante, je m'était sentie trahie par Dieu et la religion.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I practice meditation. Hoping to, maybe someday, reaching a higher level of consciousness, if not similar, then close to what I had been able to sense, and by this way get a better understanding of what happened.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   Actuellement, apres quelques années ou aucun jour ne passent sans que je repense a cet accident, je ne suis toujours pas affiliée a quelque religions existantes. Je suis Agnostique. Je pense qu'il peut exister quelque chose, mais je n'en suis pas totalement sure, je me dit parfois que c'est seulement mon cerveau qui m'a joué un tour.. Je suis passionnée par la biologie et les sciences en général, et je remet toujours tout en question.. Et je ne suis absolument pas fixée quand au possibilité actuelle de nos sciences. La sagesse est de savoir, que l'on ne sait rien.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     A l'époque je ne croyais tout simplement pas, en quoi que se soit! J'avais abandonné l'idée même d'une existence alternative. Pour moi la vie se terminait au fond d'un trou, et c'était tout..

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I questioned my total disbelief. Still today I'm undecided. I don't know where I'm at, spiritually. This event transformed me completely. I started to be interested in all kinds of religion. I'm studying myself and those that surround me. I ask myself all kinds of questions. I passed from total atheist to agnostic to believer.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I clearly saw a supernatural being. A woman that was on the other side of the barrier that divided the plain into two parts. She was wearing a long and baggy, brilliant white dress with long sleeves that hid her hands and legs. I didn't know her at all. Her hair was brown, and shoulder-length, with a center part and held back behind her ears. I couldn't distinguish her face. It felt too shiny. She was gleaming and a slight white halo surrounded her.  She seemed to be extremely happy to see me, and motioned me with her arm and hand to join her on the other side. I was surprised but happy to see that somebody was waiting for me, without really knowing where I was, nor who this person was, nor why she waited for me. But suddenly she seemed very sad, and I violently felt this terrible sadness, all the same mixed with the feeling of plenitude and happiness that this place made me feel. She transmitted to me by thought, and instantaneously, without opening her mouth or emitting any sound, that my time had not yet arrived, and that I had to go back. I then felt sucked by the whirlwind in my back, saw her disappearing, her and the plain, gradually, until I reintegrated to my body and brutally came to, real brutally.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Alors la oui sans aucun doute! J'avais vraiment l'impression que ma véritable provenance était de ce monde surnaturel. J'avais la certitude en fait, que je ne faisais 'que' retourner parmi les miens, à la maison en somme, et que j'avais des amis et de la

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Oui j'ai la nette impression que ces entité sont unis et parfaite harmonie avec l'univers. Qu'ils l'habitent et qu'ils en prennent soin.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Pas Dieu formellement, mais une entité supérieur, ou disons un ensemble d'entités supérieur. Des être différent, en parfaite association avec l'Univers. Il ne me semblait pas qu'il y avait un Dieu, mais une autre forme de vie. Comme nous les humains, mais dans un autre monde, avec un autre fonctionnement.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   In a sense that I think that our existence has a goal, and that it serves something else: elsewhere.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     J'ai vraiment eu la certitude que mon existence sur Terre avait un but précis. Plus spécifiquement, que j'étais une expérience. Que tout ma vie terrestre n'était qu'une expérience un voyage. Et que d'autre humains avait des but similaire,comme des voyages

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     Je dirais oui, mais je ne peut pas le prouver. Je n'en suis pas ABSOLUMENT sure. J'avais l'impression en fait, que ce qui se passait était normal, que c'était le processus. que mon voyage terrestre se terminait la, et que j'allais alors rejoindre la vérit

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Oui, que cette existence est souvent pénible, difficile, mais qu'elle vaut le coup! Qu'il faut en profiter pour apprécier les autres, s'aimer, et faire une famille! Qu'il faut vivre pleinement! Jouir véritablement de cette expérience, et savoir l'accepter et l'endurer ou l'apprécier comme elle vient!

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Oui j'avais l'impression qu'on m'avait mis à l'épreuve en quelque sorte , ans ma vie terrestre. Et que c'était aussi ca le but. Que je l'avais accepté avant de venir sur Terre, et que je devais m'y soumettre.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Pas vraiment, juste que l'Amour veritable existe, et est une force incoryable. Et qu'il faut aller le chercher au plus profond de son être. Que nous sommes tous fait pour s'aimer les un les autres. Et que si nous cherchons bien, nous nous entendrons tous

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Before, I gave a damn about spirituality, I had completely discarded those ideas of a life after death. Now I'm continue to have doubts. I still don't know for sure what is true. As a result, I sometimes have panic attacks, due to thoughts about the end of existence. What will happen? Nothingness? End? Or Beginning? Recommencement? I'm terribly scared to die, or to get sick.  I'm nevertheless trying to get the maximum out of my life. I have projects! Wanting children, a beautiful house! And first of all being happy! As much as possible, and doing good around me!   Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I stand back facing my life, my studies, my past and the present that I lived, and that was quite difficult. I moved apart from my family, my friends. I centered on myself and started to ask myself all kinds of questions, and still today I'm considering myself this way.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   J'ai en regle général, une mémoir médiocre. Je me souviens rarement de ce que j'ai fait dans la semaine, ou le jour d'avant. Je me souviens mal des visages. Par contre j'ai une excellente mémoire auditive! Je me souviens avec précision des son et suis capable de reconnaître les voix avec précision. Je me souviens surtout de situation traumatisante, et encore, avec parfois des difficultés. Mais cette expérience. Je m'en souviens parfaitement des années apres, et avec une foule de détail! C'est la première fois que ca m'arrive!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        An awareness that not strictly God, but a superior entity, exists, or let's say a union of superior entities. Different beings in perfect unity with the Universe. It didn't seem to me that there was a God, but another form of life. Like us humans, but within another world, functioning differently. I'm uncertain to say there is continued existence after earthly life.   I would say yes, but I cannot prove it. I'm not ABSOLUTELY sure. In fact, I had the impression, that what happened was normal, that it was the process, that my terrestrial journey ended there, and that I would then rejoin the real existence. I say rejoin, because I think that I came from there, and that I went to Earth for either an initiation, a mission or an experience. In my case, I had the impression that mine was an experience. I had the impression that my 'real' existence was in this supernatural world, and that I had friends and family there awaiting me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only one person in my environment, and you. My fiance, with who I have been living for several years. We have a solid relationship. I talked to him about this 3 to 4 years after, I think. I never talked to anybody, not even to my mother when I was living with her and who knew about my syncope, nor or my best friend. He listened to me carefully. He believes that I'm sincere in what I experienced and sensed; but he is not 'convinced' that there's another kind of life after death, as am I. He thinks that it might as well be possible or not. That we don't know and that there is no certainty. On this matter, we are much alike. He wasn't influenced, but it put some water on his mill concerning his vision 'of not knowing' about the Universe, or even, about us: the human beings.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I'm still at this stage. I think more that it was probably real, even if doubts persist. Because I think that I cannot be certain about it. Maybe it's that the human biology and their reactions are more complex than one can know, and there must not be an alternative existence.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There was, without a doubt, that I existed prior to this lifetime! I really had the impression that my real source was in this supernatural world. In fact, I had the certitude that I was 'just' returning amongst my family, returning home, and that I had friends and relatives waiting for my return.  I have the clear impression that those entities are united to, and in perfect harmony with, the Universe. That they live in it, and take care of it. I had the impression that I was doing a kind of test, in my earthly life. And also that this was the purpose of it. That I accepted it before coming to Earth, and that I had to submit to it. Real Love does exist, and it is incredibly powerful. We have to search for it in the depths of our being. That we are all made to love each other. If we are searching well, we will all understand each other perfectly and in harmony. 

  That this existence is often painful, difficult, but it is worth it! That we should make the most of it to appreciate others, love each other, and make a family! To live life fully! To really enjoy this experience, and know to accept and endure or appreciate it as it is! At the time I simply wasn't believing, whatever. I had abandoned even the idea of an alternative existence. For me life ended at the bottom of a hole, and that was it. As a rule, my memory is bad. I rarely remember what I did during the running week, or even the day before. I remember faces badly. On the other hand, I have an excellent auditory memory! I remember accurately sounds and are able to recognize voices very well. I remember traumatic situations more, but still with some difficulties. But this experience: I remember it perfectly years after, and with loads of details! It's the first time that this has happened to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nolwenn_nde.html