{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1noelia_nde.html","mytitle":"Noelia NDE 3855","mylang":"de"}
          	        Noelia NDE 3855  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Noelia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1824 Noelia NDE 3855  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in Physical Education class and was doing the Cooper Test (an endurance test, running laps around a field). The problem is that I am asthmatic and I get tired very quickly. My turn came and after the last lap, I began to feel very sick. A friend of mine asked how many laps I had done and in that moment I couldn't get enough air, my legs started to shake and everything went dark and I fell into the arms of my friend, shaking violently (according to my friend) and I went unconscious.

I became aware of a beautiful light. The darkness became clear and there was light. I saw myself there on the ground in the arms of my friend and I could hear echoes of voices. I descended back into my body. I saw a being leaning over me that I can't describe but I am sure it wasn't materially there from accounts from my friends and teacher, the thing is that I was conscious but everything looked blurred, I couldn't move and continued to have convulsions. This experience seemed to last a long time but in reality no more than five minutes had passed according to my teacher who took me to the nearest doctor. 

Finally, after the initial fright the doctor said that I had suffered an asthma attack and couldn't get enough oxygen to my brain, which had caused the convulsions and caused me to pass out. All of this is the truth as no one should make jokes about these things.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  13-04-2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Creo que fue por falta de oxígeno al cerebro  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating and when I saw the blurred being.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to go slowly to me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At first I didn't see anything and then afterwards in the moment in which I seemed to float I saw everything very clearly but blurry.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first I didn't understand the voices but then I could hear what sounded like echoes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Yes, a being that wasn't human leaning over me which was a vague grey color (I think I remember now that it was very blurry) and that it gave me the feeling of knowledge of all life which made me feel at peace and tranquil.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   A light that surrounded everything and that was blurry.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lightness, worry about seeing myself like that and seeing my friend crying in desperation. On the other hand I felt a strange peace at seeing this being leaning over me like it was familiar to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   No entiendo la pregunta yo me considero libre y soy atea pero respeto todas las religiones

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Before I didn't believe in the supernatural but now I have lived such an experience.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Lo mismo que en la anterior

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Before I didn't believe in the supernatural but now I have lived such an experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The supernatural being that I saw, I don't know, it seemed real but it was blurred, I know that it was leaning over my body and wasn't human.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know if I have a gift but each time just before something bad happens my right hand trembles.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the presence of the being was like I knew him and he wasn't human.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first I didn't tell anyone because I thought that they would laugh at me. But then after several days I told my family and then my best friend (the one whose arms I fell into) and in the end they believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because I have evidence, I could recount the whole scene to my friends and teacher and they said to me, how could I know this if I was unconscious at the time and be able to watch what was going on. I asked each friend separately if they had seen anyone leaning over me and they all responded that no, they got me to lie down in case I had an epileptic fit and no one saw the being, only me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I keep seeing it as real because of the evidence I have explained in the questions before and because of the sensation that I have all the time that it really happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Each time I have an asthma attack I remember the experience and visualize the strange being.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have learned to value life more and the people I love (family, friends) but also I have lost the fear of death and it isn't a strange sensation.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes - 'Do you believe in the supernatural?' for example.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1noelia_nde.html