{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nina_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Nina H NDE 245","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nina H NDE 245  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nina H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						417  Nina H NDE  245  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I was nine I had chicken pox. Some of the bumps developed boils. My mom tells me my face got puffy. I used to play hard out of doors, pretending I was a horse. One day I felt like I was going out of my head. I knew something was wrong.


My mother thinks I remained at home first. She told me I went to the hospital for a week. The experience happened when I was in the hospital. I do not recall anything about the days after feeling like I was fading, until the experience in the hospital.


I found myself in an ethereal place of light. Safe. Not warm, nor cold, just safe. I am not in my body and down there in a little circle in this place but not of this place there is the world with color and my mother's and the doctor's faces are in the little circle, looking at me, so worried. I feel immense love and compassion for my mother who suffers and looks like she is losing me. The doctor looks as if in pain. Even though I am above them, I can see their faces looking at me. I absolutely know what is going on.


I am suspended in the light for a while. I know I could choose where to be. I chose to be with my mom.


My mom and the doctor thought they almost lost me.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1955  I believe

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  nephritis  Life threatening event, but not clinical death My mother didn't know how serious my illness was at first.  The doctor later told her they nearly lost me.  My Mom still speaks of the guilt of the doctor:  She over-reacted, keeping me on penicillin for 7 years thereafter.I had nephritis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I am bathed in light that is alive. It is beyond description in words. I got out of my body

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Of another world.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There is something immense about this place. The world where my mother and doctor are is very small and has boundaries. This place has none.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There is no sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   No specific light, everything is light, including me. I am of this light, out of my body. The only place is this little circle down below in the corner, kind of as if it is my peripheral vision. Where my mother and doctor were was separate from where I was.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place of this whitish light is beyond words. The light is alive there. I was okay there.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Love, a radiating love, and love for my mother.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I returned knowing death isn't scary. I developed an immense love for Native people and seemed to have a sense of purpose and knowledge of Native peoples. This is difficult to explain.  I was confined to bed for six months and I wasn't allowed to play much for over a year. The kids at school teased me horribly. I became a troubled teen. My mom took me to a psychologist. I think my mom had problems, too. The psychologist told me my mom had problems because of me. This impacted me. I tried to hide parts of myself.  I went through a crazy period in my teens. I put all of my pain and hurt into music and sang solos with the choir, etc.  I think I knew about things other people couldn't understand.  I know there is purpose in being here, and every day it comes to me as per what is in front of me. I am very sensitive to people.  My middle brother became lost after taking LSD. I knew how to bring him back. I don't know how I knew, it just comes to me. That is because of my experience.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I myself consciously decided to go back. I could have stayed there. I can still see inside me the qualities of that place, the living light.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     The answers are all inside me. There is no fear of death. I am comfortable with it. I exercised racehorses for a long time. Although I knew fear when I did that, I also knew death rode on my shoulder with me. I became fascinated with the teachings of the Yaqui Indian, Don Juan, and how death rides on one's shoulder. I am comfortable with Death there. I do not challenge Death, I just know it is part of being in this Life. There is something about me that is very giving, to everything I do in this Life. It is about service and love.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel things others do not. I think that is why my family thought there was something wrong with me. I thought I had to hide something about myself. I turned my life force inward and became emotionally ill. The only way out of my illness was to go on a quest. I went alone to South America. I followed my heart in doing this. The means presented themselves to me. Three months later I returned, and my leaving emotional illness behind. The journey reinforced my sense of purpose, and I have been on purpose ever since.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is my sense of purpose and how to connect with others. I even have a feel for inanimate objects. Native peoples understand this. The worst part is that I was the Stranger in a Strange Land. In the long run, I am deeper and stronger because of everything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I finally told my mom. My father is near Death. I seem able to make friends with other NDE people. We have these things in common: sensitivity, purpose, integrity, no fear of death, spirituality, love of others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   In South America in the ancient Inca ruins of Macchu Picchu, something happened to me. Afterwards I felt stronger in myself, having reconnected with something that seemed to be missing because of the peer abuse I suffered. Also I had an experience in San Francisco. Both experiences were when I was in my twenties. At these two times and other times, I experimented with substances. I carefully chose the places and times; I knew this to be important for me. Like Ram Das says about phone message machines, once I got the message, I did not need to keep replaying it. I evermore study and learn new things, new ways of being, communicating, etc. Everything just reinforces something inside of and beyond me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I suppose these are all very individual experiences. If you have anything else to ask after you read this, please do!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nina_h_nde.html