{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nikki_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Nikki Possible NDE 2532","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nikki Possible NDE 2532  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nikki Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						806  Nikki Possible NDE  2532  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I came down with bacterial spinal meningitis when I was seven months old. Fortunately, my mother is a nurse so when we (her kids) got sick she paid very close attention to our symptoms and took proper care of us. If it hadn't have been for her I probably wouldn't be here today. At first, it was very hard to diagnose me, and everyone told my mother that I had the flu, even some doctors. She visited three doctors in a matter of two days before she realized what I had because of the stiff neck and the extreme 105.8 fever that I had. The last doctor she went to recognized what was wrong with me immediately and put me in intensive care as soon as possible. He also told her I would either die in four hours or have a dramatic turn around. Thankfully, my parents are very spiritual and prayerful and I know in my heart to this day that those prayers helped me tremendously. I was in intensive care for eleven days for my first Christmas. Being so young, I don't remember the experience when it happened, but I can picture all the colors and everything else about it in my mind.

When I was three years old I walked up to my mom and just out of the blue said, 'Mom I died when I was little and you didn't even know it.' she turned around and said, 'Really? What did you see?' I wouldn't tell her any more. Three years later, we were reading a spiritual book, and a blurted out, 'Mom! I remember what I saw!' I proceeded to tell her that there was a beautiful city and there were golden domes, and I was often in a room where little baby angels would race to Jesus' mother Mary on a throne and place flowers at her feet. I told her that her robe was red and trimmed with fur, and it makes sense because it was around Christmas time when I was sick. That's all I remember. I do know I was extremely fortunate because the illness often leaves disabilities, hearing loss, and brain damage and I am a studious student, athletic, and a lover of music. Today I am very spiritually sensitive and continue to have experiences, some of which are very frightening, and some very beautiful experiences.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12-12-86  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I slept.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Don't remember - too young.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't remember any communication I just remember watching everything.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Saw the city with golden domes.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, glee.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I didn't have any past events yet :)  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I have strayed, but whenever I do stray it won't be for long because it doesn't feel right in my heart to do that.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have strayed, but whenever I do stray it won't be for long because it doesn't feel right in my heart to do that.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Not psychic, but paranormal. I have sleep paralysis frequently, and during those my spirit tries to leave (OBEs) I always fight it though.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Every part was meaningful.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's been a while since I've shared it, and everyone seems intrigued.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Too young to know.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Don't know.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nikki_possible_nde.html