{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nikki_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Nikki C NDE 811","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nikki C NDE 811  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nikki C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						309  Nikki C NDE  811  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a serious, car accident with multiple injuries. I had emergency surgery, as I had a severe break to my right femur. I remember talking with others before my surgery, yet that was the last thing I remember for the following four days. During surgery, I had a pulmonary embolism, which caused respiratory arrest. While I was not conscious during these four days, when I saw my family standing around my bed talking about my condition, I turned to the other side of the bed and stepped out of my body. I began to walk around the room trying to talk to my living family members, but they could not hear me. I then turned and in the other corner of the hospital room was my deceased grandmother and cousin. They were in a light much like sunset. They did not speak at all, yet their level of sure peace was like none I had ever known - before or after. They were smiling, but said nothing as I tried to tell them I was ok - and why wouldn't my living family who were standing there talk to me? I did see myself in the bed unconscious while I was walking around the room.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    12/31/2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Car crash - respiratory arrest during surgery on femur/broken/rod replacement.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    Confusion, anger toward my living family for not listening to me. Yet, I felt peace with my deceased grandma there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious, technically.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See above.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Sunset like.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, two weeks before this happened I had a vivid, frightening dream.  I saw a beautiful blue glass-like building with my grandma who is deceased. I then saw myself sitting in a wheelchair in my home and woke up.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I feel my deceased family's spirits came to greet me should I have chosen to go. I am firm in my belief that I had a choice. I do not wish to die, although I now have no fear.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Life is short, live well!!!

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was hard to covey to others the level of peace I felt, during my experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The unbelievable sense of peace was phenomenal!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some believe, some don't. I have no need to explain I know where I was.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nikki_c_nde.html