{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nigel_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Nigel M NDE 880","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nigel M NDE 880  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nigel M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						358  Nigel M NDE  880  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

A kite surfing accident caused me to be thrown approximately seventy meters horizontally and at least six meters up in the air and into the edge of the roof of my house. I suffered twenty-one fractures of my hips, ribs, and shoulders, severe concussion, punctured lung, severe internal and external bruising and shock amongst other injuries.


I was basically unconscious for fourteen hours with about three episodes, lasting seconds each, of semi-consciousness.


Sometime during my unconscious phase, I found myself thrown near the edge of a swirling mass of beings. All the beings around me were very black and the atmosphere was one of depression and resignation. I was being pushed along very fast by the swirling mass of beings, some looking like walking skeletons. I had the feeling that, as we were moving round, we also were moving towards the outer edge of the swirling mass where these beings simply fell off the edge into nothingness or death.


I had the feeling I did not want to go there and tried to struggle against the moving mass of people. It was hard not to be driven along by them, kind of like fighting against a current whilst crossing a river. At some stage I became aware that far in the distance, in the center of this huge mass of beings was a bright light. Sometimes, whilst struggling to fight the current I caught a brief and faint sight of this light. I wanted to get closer to this light.


I found either by trial and error or else by some external guidance, that the only way I could get closer to this light was to think pure thoughts of helping others. I tried to do this and found that by focusing just on helping others, or trying to develop compassion, I was able to edge closer to the light at the center.


As soon as I had a self-centered thought or any other thought other than helping others, I was immediately thrown towards the outside of the huge revolving mass.  I had to struggle back towards the center. The outer edges of the mass were revolving with thousands of beings at a nauseatingly fast pace. As I got closer to the center, the pace slowed down and the energy of the beings became much lighter and less frantic.


I passed several people I recognized on my way towards the center and it felt like I could see by their colors radiating from their bodies what sort of people they really were beneath their outward appearances. If I made any judgment on them, I was immediately thrown towards the outer edge of the sphere and back to the nauseating, frantic black crowd.


I found it useful to chant, 'Just helping people,' like a mantra which allowed me to eventually approach the inner circle where very calm and slow moving pure beings were sitting round a large glowing white light. I felt honored to be there and aware I had to keep my thoughts totally pure in what seemed like a very sacred space.


I had the desire to melt into the white light. It seemed like a voice told me the only way to do this was to empty my mind of all thoughts, but still to keep one tiny part focused on helping others. I did this and melted into the light. This was an indescribably blissful experience.  I felt like I was part of everything and the same time absolutely empty. It was absolutely purifying, healing and timeless.


My next conscious thoughts were being back in my body and experiencing immense pain. At some stage later I came to in the intensive care unit of Nelson Hospital and began my physical recovery.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Dec. 17, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Severe, potentially life threatening injuries as result of kite surfing accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As I approached the white light I became a being of white light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      'Clinically Unconscious' but during the experience I was very alert and absolutely aware of what I saw, but unaware I had suffered an accident and was injured.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   During the dissolving into the white light phase.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See narrative above.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White pure light like a fireplace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Just helping others, understanding of true compassion.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     White light, I dissolved into it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I would like to develop compassion and help people.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feelings and mind state experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - wish to develop compassion.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nigel_m_nde.html