{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicola_e_friend_other.html","mytitle":"Nicole E Friend Experience 32304","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicole E Friend Experience 32304  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicole E Friend Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand Other  			3679 Nicole E Friend Experience 32304  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My friend and I met as schoolteachers at the same school several years ago.  She was pregnant when we met and chose me to be present at the birth of her child because she was a single mother and afraid of being alone.  It was a tremendous honor to be invited into the delivery room because, even though I have children of my own, it was a fascinating opportunity to see a birth without experiencing the pain myself!  

My friend delivered a baby boy named Mich'l and it was an incredible experience.  I joked to her that I saw her son before she did! (I saw his head poking out before he was born and she didn't have a mirror to see for herself!)

Tragically, my friend passed away suddenly just months after her son was born.  He has been raised by her parents ever since.  The boy now goes to the school where his mother and I taught and this year he is in my 4th Grade class.  It is with a heavy heart that I teach him each day.  I have never told him that I was there for his birth because I didn't want the other students to think that he had special treatment and I didn't want to upset him with thoughts of his mother.  Perhaps his grandparents told him that I was there, but I'm not sure.  He does know, however, that his mom and I were friends.  (This makes sense because he knows that she used to teach at our school.)

Flash forward to last week; 9 and one half years after his birth and his mother passing. I was speaking with my class about our memories for a poetry writing assignment.  I asked them to think back to the earliest memories they have.  Most students talked about Kindergarten, or perhaps day care, or vague memories of old toys, etc. from when they were about 3-4 years old.

Mich'l put up his hand and said that he remembers watching everyone from up in the sky, and being in his mother's belly before he was born.  He said that when he was waiting to be born, he was invisible and he was in my grey car with me on the way to the hospital while I listened to the song, 'Winter, Spring, Summer or Fall.' (This is what he called the song. He likely doesn't know the real name, and he probably hasn't heard it since but it was 'You've Got a Friend' by James Taylor.  I used to have the cassette tape in that car!) This is bizarre because I did drive a grey car at that time and I haven't had one for the past 7 years (2 years after he was born).  I can't imagine he even knows that song from today's radio music.  My heart started to beat like crazy.  How would he know that?  Even his grandparents wouldn't know that and his mom wouldn't have known that before she died.  Even if she did, somehow, he was only three months old when she passed.  How would she tell him?  I certainly never told her what song was on in my car on the way to the hospital so I can't explain this!

Mich'l said that he remembers me stopping for gas and asking the attendant for directions to the hospital (true).  He said that he wanted me for his mommy because he liked my voice when I was speaking to the attendant.  (I did stop for gas and I was kind of lost going to a rural hospital, so I asked for directions.)  Then he said that he remembers that the parking lot was partially closed for construction, so I had to park on a corner and run to the hospital.  By this point my jaw was almost on the floor and the whole class was starting at me.  I had never even told the class (or Mich'l) that I was at his birth.  The class must have thought this was one crazy story.  

Then Mich'l said the most incredible thing. He said that while his 'real mom' was in labor, he asked God if I could be his mom because he knew that his 'real mom' wouldn't survive very long, and he was afraid of being alone on Earth.  Apparently, he was told that he couldn't have me for his 'real mom' but that everything would be OK and he would still get to be around me during his life.

Mich'l said that he kept begging me to be his mother.  He watched me go down the hallway from the birthing suite to the waiting lounge to make a phone call from a pay phone (true; there was no cell signal in the hospital), and that while I was there I was very cold so I put on a sweater that someone else left on the waiting room chairs.  By this point the hairs on the back of my neck were standing up.  I hate to admit this, but I did find a nice warm cardigan in that waiting room and I put it on because I was so cold.  I've never done anything like that before, but it was a small hospital and there were literally no other people in the labor ward and I waited to see if anyone would come to claim the sweater, and no one did.  I was so cold! I put it on and ended up wearing it home (Shame on me, I know, I still feel guilty about that. I've felt so guilty that I never wore it again, especially because it reminds me of my friend who ended up passing away.  Regardless, I have to mention it because I've never told anyone about taking someone else's sweater, and it's a huge part of this story!)

Mich'l concluded by saying that he watched me make the phone call and put on the other person's sweater, and that's the last thing he remembers.  He was born about thirty minutes after I went to the lounge and made that phone call.

Later, I privately said to Mich'l, 'Yes, I was at your birth.  How did you know all of that stuff?'  His grandparents weren't at the birth and there was literally no way he would have known any of that.  How could he make it up?  He said that it's easy. He just had to think back to his earliest memories.  He asked me why I don't remember being born too and he said, 'It's OK. My life did turn out OK; so don't worry about not being my mom.' WOW.

I write this in all sincerity as my evidence that there must be some kind of heaven up there; if he could have memories of watching his birth and waiting to be born.   I considered the idea that his mom speaks to him from the afterlife, and maybe she told him herself but how would she even know this information?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 15 2014

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know if his mother in heaven helped him to know this information, or if he was really 'aware' prior to birth.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

   After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicola_e_friend_other.html