{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nick_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Nick S NDE 2503","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nick S NDE 2503  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nick S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						787  Nick S NDE  2503  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

It all started when my family wanted to rent a video for a movie night. My dad used to play with us, inhale helium out of balloons, and make high pitch voices to make us laugh. Well after doing that for a couple years with nothing bad happening to me, I thought that nothing would happen. I went to the blockbuster and got a balloon and right after my first inhale of helium, I blacked out.

This is probably the scariest things that ever happened to me, when I fainted, I felt like I was falling in a very, very long deep hole and there would be no end. I hit the ground and landed in what seemed to be a pile of bones, but I felt no pain but I was freaked out. I don't know what made me want to keep going, but it felt like I needed to. It was extremely dark and I walked down a stairway into what looked almost like an underground stream with a small walkway on the side. I exited the flight of stairs and as soon as I did, I heard moaning that made me get cold chills down my spine. I looked at the stream that was a bit lower than I was which was to my left.  There were dead bodies floating in it. I started to freak out and cried. I wiped my eyes and started walking some more and then I asked, 'Where am I?'

Not even two seconds after I asked myself that there across the 'tunnel of death' (that's what I refer to it as) shined a very bright light, but it didn't seem to hurt my eyes. In fact, it felt soothing to look at. I turned around to look and behind me were two dogs with thick black coats and they were sitting on the walk way. I knew I couldn't turn back so I turned back around. In front of me was something that's hard to describe, almost like an orb or a spirit of some kind, but I heard someone say, 'You're not supposed to be here yet. Come with me and go back to your home. It's not your time.' I asked, 'Am I dead?' The shiny thing approached me and I almost felt as if I were being pulled into the light, which was still far away. As I got closer to the light, everything started getting dark. Soon I was in complete darkness and felt as if I were falling up and I heard a booming voice say, 'I love you but you haven't experienced my gift to you yet. If you were to go now you would never get to see what it is like to...' And I woke up.

When I woke up I was at my house and my family was about to take me to the hospital but I woke up. I was really cold and my skin was clammy and pale. Still to this day, I swear I had a near death experience but I never knew if it was. I would really appreciate it if anyone had any information on this type of near death experience because I almost think I'm going to hell. Thank you. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	July 3, 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Other it was just a faint more like a slight fall and concussion which led to a black-out.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was walking in the tunnel with the dead bodies and the dogs.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     It felt like everything was going super slow and I was moving faster than normal, like walking.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see everything clearly in the dark.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything repeated itself and some things boomed.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It's almost like a tunnel made of bricks and was very dark and cold, also it was very long, but I think it was way deep underground.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Well I'm not sure if it was a human being - but I talked to what I thought was an angel and after that I thought I talked God. Either that or it was Satan.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I didn't see a light until after I sort of got the feeling I was going to die.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared and that I was alone and I was going to die.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I knew I was going to have troubles with my family and that I had to get a job to help pay for a divorce so my mom wouldn't get beat by my dad anymore.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I think so because since that happened I have been able to see things like in my family album it used to be normal photos but now there are orbs all over them in the background, and in one, I'm standing next to my mother and my dead grandfather is standing next to me in it. (Or what appears to be him.)  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When the voice of what I thought of was God said, 'I love you but you haven't experienced my gift to you yet, if you were to go now you would never get to see what it's like to...'  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Like a year, and I shared it with my mom because it was driving me crazy wondering if she could see it, I hid the photo since I saw the orbs and I showed it to my mom and she freaked out and now the photo is being examined by researchers.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was about a week and I thought of it in a dream except I woke up before it blacked out and I examined things more than I did when it happened. I thought it was real because I kept feeling scared like I was going to die sometime that week or month or something within that time but I didn't. I told my mom about it and she told me about near death experiences.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think it's real because now I know about all this information such as 'near death experiences' but if I didn't know about them I honestly would think I was just going crazy.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nick_s_nde.html