{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nick_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Nick P NDE 156","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nick P NDE 156  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Nick P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						596  Nick P NDE  156  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 On Wednesday, June 19, I had heart bypass surgery at a Hospital in Long Beach. This was a mid-calf opening under the left chest area. I was released on Saturday at noon and went to the hotel to rest. That night I was very sick to my stomach but did not vomit. Sunday morning I was throwing up and could not keep anything in my stomach. My wife called the hospital, and I was admitted back to the Heart Institute for observation.


That Sunday morning, my blood pressure was very high (160/100) and my heart rate was very fast (110). The doctors got all of this under control by 3:00 pm. The rest of the day went uneventfully and I rested well. Monday morning I woke up complaining of pain in my left neck like I fell asleep wrong on my neck. I asked for a pain pill at 8:00 am. At 9:00 am, I got the Vicodin pain pills, at 9:20 I still had pain, and then it moved to my left shoulder area and to my left chest and finally centered in the chest area with great pain.


I told the nurse that it was getting more difficult for me to breath. It was beginning to cause me to hold my breath and not get any air. The nurse brought in a Nitro pill and put it under my tongue, and in a few minutes asked me if I was better. I answered ‘No’. She gave me another pill, waited again and asked me if I felt better. ‘No’, I said. Then she gave me a third pill. By this time, I could not move my chest to get any air. I looked at my fingers: my nails were going blue. The last I remember was the nurse telling me to keep looking at her, to focus on her, and not to close my eyes and stay with her.  Then the room started to go all white, not bright, but just white in color.


When I was able to see anything again, I saw my late Dad all in white, wearing what looked like a soft robe. My late Mother was next to him, and my late Mother's parents were next to her. I was not fearful of where I was, but more like I wanted to be there with them. My Dad then asked me if I could forgive him for his wrongs in raising us kids (two older brothers and a younger sister). I went to reach for him, but he backed away and said, ‘Your time is not now, for you are not done, where I was’. He then said that I have been in great pain for a long time, and I must be with the one who loves me and be with her. (I have been separated from my wife of 29 years and living with a woman I met in 1999 at this time.)  I then started to drift back to reality and came to with the nurse injecting something in the IV tube going to my arm.


Since then, I have been very emotional at times and it is somewhat hard to talk about. I have told my brothers and sister about this. They have given me some thoughts about what happened.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 23, 2002

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessSurgery-related     (MDI) Mid Cardial Infusion.  After a Mid-Calf By-Pass surgery, I was not able to breath and could not move my chest muscles nor talk.  Had great pain across the chest area left side. At what I thought was the end of my life because on not being able to geI had heart bypass surgery 6 days earlier that caused some problems later.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      None that I know of. I could not move nor talk anymore.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Everything just got white.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw my late Dad all in white, wearing what looked like a soft robe. My late Mother was next to him, and my late Mother's parents were next to her.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Not bright but a lot of white all around. Like no matter where you looked, it was the same color and intensity.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was very happy to see my parents, as I saw that they were happy together.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am trying to find out about what my father said to me and how it fits with me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Just that I was not ready to be with my parents yet. My time was not yet done.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My Father told me my time was not yet done.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Thinking of the same thought with my friend and this has happened before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was to see my parents and listen to my Father, for he talked in a kind voice, which made me feel needed and wanted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Somewhat bewildered and wanted to know more.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not now.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nick_p_nde.html