{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicole_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nicole M Probable NDE 5384","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicole M Probable NDE 5384  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicole M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2900 Nicole M Probable NDE 5384  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been suffering from painful rheumatoid arthritis for many years and had to inject myself with Humira in order to live comfortably.  

Three months before my NDE, I knew something was going to happen (death). On August 30, 2010, as I was about to make an injection, my two dogs laid down upon me as if to make a barricade. They had never behaved that way before. I was overwhelmed with fear because I felt the time had come. I injected myself despite the certainty that I was going to die. 

Suddenly, I felt myself depart and in a dark tunnel, lit with bluish hues. At the end of it, I could see a very attractive light. I felt no more pain, had no physical body and felt no mental anguish. The only thing I felt was unconditional love and my father’s presence. He died 28 years ago! He took my left hand and welcomed me. I did not perceive myself as being dead. I felt only happiness, no more pain and on top of that, I was with my father. I wanted to go further and through the door but my father sent me back to terrestrial life without giving me any time to argue. He said goodbye, which seemed impossible. 

When I returned, I felt lost but in a great state of mind. I was once again racked with pain. I just wanted to return to my father’s love. For many weeks, even months afterwards, I was lost in my own world and few people understood my state of mind. This experience changed my entire life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  30/08/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Heart attack    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Just a feeling.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious and alert for the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel and a wonderful light at the end of it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased father. He was in the light, took my hand and we talked. This experience enabled me to grieve for him. Since the event, I can feel and take away pain with my left hand.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An attractive light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     la lumière et cette porte que je n' ai pas pu franchir

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unconditional love and peace of mind.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I understand his disease and why he has gone.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not ‘normal’.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Telepathy, premonitions and magnetisms.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my father which was the best gift I could ever have received.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt more real than terrestrial life, but difficulties in my life continued as before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicole_m_probable_nde.html