{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicole_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Nicole C NDE 3437","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicole C NDE 3437  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicole C NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1464 Nicole C NDE 3437  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was one week after my sixteenth birthday and I was at my boyfriend's apartment. He had given me a hot pink jacket for my birthday that he bought with my money. This was a sore issue with me.  When we had begun to argue, I brought up the fact that he didn't have a job and bought me a present with my money. He became enraged and I refused to back down until he had grabbed the jacket off the floor by the armpit with one hand and the cuff with the other, he wrapped it around my throat and twisted the sleeve tight.

I remember first being underneath him as he choked me.  I was trying to communicate with him to stop.  Then suddenly I was looking down at his back while he was hunched over me, still choking me. I first was confused at what was happening, then I became very frightened at the thought of being killed and then next thing I knew I was back on the ground in my body gasping for air. I sat upright and was very terrified that I had just died and was very close to being taken away from my family.

It was after that day that I began having dreams of things that would happen in the future. I only dream of tragedies and find that this is not a 'gift' but rather a curse. Other things have happened because of or in coincidence of this experience that would be considered out of the ordinary. Things such as being visited at night by three beings that wanted to take me with them, having other dreams with the beings in them.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Other 'I was being assaulted, strangled'  I was being strangled.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I went from being very aware I was being choked to very aware of being above my body.  I do not remember any journey of how I got from point 'a' to point 'b' but I do know that there was a sort of 'process', I only remember it in a kind of blurry dreamlike fog though.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I moved very quickly without trying. I would just think of where I wanted to be and then I was there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     If I remember correctly I was looking through an invisible tunnel, not like a train tunnel and there was not bright light but more like my side vision was blurred but not relevant. Hard to explain.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't think there was any sound or noise or anything like that going on at the time. It seemed very quiet and all I was aware of was my thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I do not remember the journey, just being one second inside my body and then outside my body and then back in again.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     After the experience I began seeing beings, three of them, always together.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not that I remember.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fright. I was at first confused, I did not expect to be outside of my body and looking down on what was happening to me but once I realized what was going on I quickly became frightened of leaving my family behind to deal with a mess such as that. I did not want that to be how my family remembered me in my passing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     As I explained earlier in describing my kids and such - I also still have 'dreams' that come true, every time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now know that God, Angels, life after death are all very real and play a significant role in my decisions.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   very spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know that God, Angels, life after death are all very real and play a significant role in my decisions.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was not finished here and that I could not leave, that my leaving would be a terrible and tragic event.  I also suddenly started knowing other things such as when I would have kids and what their sexes would be and in what order.  I began and still do have 'dreams' of events that are going to happen.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes But not in the way you think - I am no longer tolerant of abuse, I know that I can be killed and that I am in no way super woman.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     'Dreams' and a type of empathic ability and I was able to just tell when something was happening or had happened.  For example, my horses were being boarded in a town about twenty-five miles away from where I lived with my father. One night at 10:00 o'clock I had to call my mother, I did not know exactly why but that something had happened with my horses. My horse had colic and was dying.  Another time I called home and asked my mother what was wrong with my siblings. She was amazed, both my brother and sister were upset and crying all day over our family dog being put to sleep.  I also had a type of telepathic connection with my younger sister, she would think my name repeatedly and then I would sense it and call her. I still have this with my friend whom I grew up with.  I have 'dreams' that tell me of future tragedies.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I suddenly knew I had things to do and could not leave. Before that I had no idea of any future or any meaning to my future.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I shared with friends but I only told my mother and father of the 'psychic' type stuff I experienced/experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was amazed, I began to believe profoundly in my spirituality. I was no longer questioning if there was a God or Angels or life after death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know without a doubt I was outside of my body looking down at what was happening, my only regret is that I was too frightened and confused to pay closer attention to what was happening and if someone else was there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicole_c_nde.html