{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicole_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Nicole L NDE 2530","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicole L NDE 2530  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicole L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						817  Nicole L NDE  2530  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I was with a friend, around 6:00 pm and during the day I experienced dizziness and felt like I was going to faint. I got up to look for toilet paper and when I came back, I started to have a very bad headache. I was dizzy and lost my vision (eyesight); I only saw green points and my ear also failed. At that moment, I was able to say I was not feeling well. My friend had to hold me because I fainted and almost fell to the ground. At this moment, I saw blackness around me and I saw myself lying on the bed and my friend telling me to wake up. I got scared and thought it was a dream. After that, I saw a tunnel and at the end of the tunnel there was a white and gold light.  Next to me, there were two persons in black that made me understand that I had to accompany them. (they never talked to me)  It was as if they were forcing me to accompany them. I freed from them. After that, I remembered in a slide or photo manner, two facts of my life: one when I was little and the other was actual. I then heard my friend's voice from far. I suddenly woke up. I was very tired. He told me that I had a convulsion and had lost consciousness. I was sweating, got very pale and had a headache for approximately two days.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 principios de enero  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I had syncope or lipotimia [Translator note: I don't know the translation in English for this word].  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   During that moment, what was happening was clear to me. However, after coming back it was difficult to remember it and explain it. This made me feel frustrated because when I was actually experiencing it, I felt it was difficult to forget even the tiniest detail, but when I came back I found out it was difficult to remember.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw myself lying on the bed.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I thought I was dreaming. I thought it was a dream and that I would wake up at any moment.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was brighter and at the objects.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was slower and lower than usual.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was at the entrance of the tunnel but when I had to walk I did not go too far because I did not want to go.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were two beings. I saw their silhouette; they did not talk to me but insisted that I was to go with them ; they were beside me at the entrance of the tunnel. During a moment I felt that they were forcing me to follow them but I did not.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was big, white and gold. It was at the end of the tunnel but shone into part of the tunnel.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear. I could not believe it. I panicked and returned immediately.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Only two (like photos). That feeling scared me and it suddenly stopped.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned there was something greater and that I should have crossed the tunnel but I did not - out of fear - but next time I have to cross it. I learned that we should not be afraid.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am calmer, tranquil and patient. I observe everything.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The part related to the tunnel, the sensations, the remembrance, the arrival to the tunnel.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm kind of sensitive to energies, I see and feel things. I used to feel this before but now it is stronger.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The tunnel and the decision not to cross it or enter it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was hard for me to talk about it because I thought people would think I was crazy. I told a doctor about it and he motivated me to tell about it and told me that my experience was possible so after a few weeks I started to tell people and they understood.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Difficult and violent - not very easy to live with because many questions arise.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was and it is real because I remember clearly what happened and have witnesses.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicole_l_nde.html