{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicholas_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Nicholas P NDE 2319","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicholas P NDE 2319  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicholas P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						676  Nicholas P NDE  2319  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was accidentally poisoned. Almost instantly, I could not breathe. Then I just knew I was dying. I ran to my brother's bedroom it was the first room I came to. I laid on the bed in serious chest pain and 'pop'! I was on the other side of the room, but my body, my shell was on the bed. I saw and felt the Light, am I dead? Then gentle laughter, 'No Nick you can't die you were never born. Is your shell going to die? Not yet.'

'Are you Jesus?' 

'I am the great I am. I come to you the way you want to see me; there is a golden thread in all religions and practices. I am the blanket and you are a thread of it.'

This is my imagination. 

'Is it Nick?!'

No, I was never as sure of anything as I am of this. 

'You have chosen an experience, you wish to live, and it is far from over.'

The Light told me many things, which I choose not to talk of. I was told there is no hell. Hell is a lack of harmony.  Heaven is harmony. You can have these in or out of the shell. Several things were told to me one of which was, 'You will have a child late in life. You will call him Quentin. It will be with the third woman.'

I had Quentin with my third wife when I was fifty-five years old - my first child. There is so much more, all I can say is I still have daily contact with the Light every day. I was asleep; I awoke to find the rest of the world still sleeping! It comes from within.

Peace - Nicholas P.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was perfectly healthy at the time of the occurrence then the accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I said I was sleeping, I awoke to find the rest of the world still sleeping. Today I am aware.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I was out of my shell.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Again I cannot describe it?  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision, well having no material body I was sensing, seeing, and feeling on another plane - it is like trying to explain the colors of the rainbow to a blind person.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again you are asking me to describe something that has no words.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only the Light I told it in the writing above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There are no words to truly describe it, maybe love energy.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First fear then profound Love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     It was completely, unbelievable accurate and more.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   catholic schooling ohhh!  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Religion is for people who are afraid of hell, spiritually is for people who have been there.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritual  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Religion is for people who are afraid of hell, spiritually is for people who have been there.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I choose not to thank you.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more forgiving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Some of it is easy to tell some of it is hard to explain, and some most will not understand.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took some time to tell others. Oh by the way, I saw God and He told me things but since then I have no trouble talking to anyone who asks me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because I started to change.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never lost contact with the Light, I have become awakened. For in the material world seeing is believing, in the spiritual world believing is seeing.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   How can I put it, I have positive schizophrenia (or however you spell it!). I hear a voice that is not my own, a kind loving forgiving presence.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The original sin is most people don't know they are a spirit having a human experience.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None, but thank you, it comes from within peace.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicholas_p_nde.html