{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1newie_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Newie Y NDE 253","mylang":"de"}
          	        Newie Y NDE 253  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Newie Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1395 Newie Y NDE 253  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had had attacks before and always recovered, this time I could tell I wasn't. In effect, you strangle. I had somehow hooked myself through a window in the bathroom to try to breathe better I guess. Anyhow, as a result when I passed out I didn't fall down. A short peaceful time passed, as I was no longer struggling for air.

Then I was outside the window (we were on the thirty-seventh floor) looking back on me passed out in the window. My hand was reaching out to the me in the window. The night was dark but the stars were getting lighter eating up the night. I felt an urgency to take the me in the window with me, touch her, or get her attention. I'm not sure. But she was out. Didn't see me. I turned to go -- into the sky, night, light. Not sure. Just that that person in the window had nothing to do with me anymore. There was no sound. Maybe whooshing. But this is New York. There is always sound. This was quiet, Very quiet. Then I heard this colossal noise.

Someone was beating the door to the bathroom down. I turned around. My husband came in and started trying to get a response out of the old me. Then there were emergency medical technicians, workers, and other people. He looked horrified. I felt very sad -- the me outside the window. I lingered. I didn't fly away. Then pop. Just like before, no transition, first I was one place then the other. I was then inside my eyes and me were seeing the ceiling not the night. The clarity of this memory is not to be denied in spite of my not religious views. It was not fuzzy. I told those closest to me within a day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Clinical death   I had apparently fatal anaphylactic attack that closed my windpipe. My husband of twenty-five years found me collapsed in the bathroom and thought I was dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Total separation. Looking back at my body. As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The body me was out cold. The me outside the window was very clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Was it simultaneous? Before? I saw the view from the thirty-seventh floor in a way impossible from a window or any perspective possible.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Silence. Whooshing.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Growing gradually. A dark punctuated by spots of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was beautiful. But it is beautiful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Free. Positive. Adventure. Discovery. Childlike. Lack of fear.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     The opposite. My new world seemed limitless in contrast to my living one.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't go. I stayed. I felt sad. I guess there was a decision to stay but I was not really aware of it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best. This clear memory of me turning to go into the night/light. Confident. Sure. I can't say that I was that happy at the time to return. Of course, now I am definitely very happy to be here. I am not sure why. I cannot see me making much of a difference. But maybe my existence is necessary to someone I may never know who will.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The ones who were there were so surprised I could recount what happened they accepted it. I also am regarded as a very rational person. People were surprised I would say such a thing, but they believed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1newie_y_nde.html