{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1newlin_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Newlin D NDE 3710","mylang":"de"}
          	        Newlin D NDE 3710  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Newlin D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1707 Newlin D NDE 3710  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I was being electrocuted I left my body and floated above the scene. I was surrounded by a warm diffuse light but could see everything clearly. I could see my body shaking and convulsing with the electrical current, my eyes were open, my mouth was open but I couldn't speak. I seemed to know that I was going to die unless something changed. I don't remember being scared or frightened at all - very matter-of-factly.

While floating I went over to where my dad was working at the other end of the garage. He had his back to my body and wasn't aware of what was going on. I went over to him and then he looked up from his work on the floor, turned to see my body being electrocuted. He picked up a hammer, threw it across the room, and knocked the extension cord/drop light out of my hand.

After that, the light went out, the scene collapsed.  The next thing I was aware of was being awakened by my mother in our family room. Apparently, I had collapsed on the garage floor and then my dad had carried me into the family room. I remember feeling tingling all over; especially in my mouth (I had braces at the time). But I had no immediate recollection of the events. Likewise, it wasn't scary or unsettling in the least. I don't think I realized that I had nearly died physically and certainly didn't realize I had left my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other Temporary electrocution  I was being electrocuted from an extension cord/drop light I was holding while standing bare footed on a concrete garage floor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While floating above the scene and seeing everything as if it was transparent.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Going through the tunnel was very rapid. After coming out things seem to be moving really slowly and there wasn't any sense of being hurried.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything I saw seemed transparent - I could see through physical structures. And there was a softness to all the edges of things, as if slightly out of focus or fuzzy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall having any sensation of sound or being able to hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Now that I ponder the question I recall speeding towards a point of light, which may have felt like a tunnel, and then coming out on the other end to have the experience I described above, i.e., floating above my physical body.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Not on the same plane or dimension that I was in but I could see my body and my dad in their physical forms.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The dimension I was in was very beautiful and peaceful.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace - as if everything was fine and nothing bad or harmful could ever happen. With the peace came contentment and happiness - not smiling, gleeful happiness - placid happiness and wellbeing. And warmth, although warmth isn't an emotion that is what I felt and remember.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Only during the tunnel travel was there any experience of being confined. After emerging in the light everything seemed boundary-less.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not sure. I knew I was dying or going to die and that I could do something to change that.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Experiencing eternity (if that is what it was) has caused me to think differently about who I am and who I am in relation to others - actually, in relation to everything. I used to think that everything was connected. Now I think that everything is one - all are one, and always has been.  My relationships have changed. Treating others the way they would like to be treated makes so much sense. I believe that whatever you send out comes back to you; therefore, you have to be very careful about what you think, say and do. I'm much more respectful, considerate and compassionate as a result of my experience - at least I'm trying to be.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had some vivid dreams of future events that turned out to happen a day after the dreams, but this was when I was still a young boy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of peacefulness was incredible. The sense of everything being transparent or translucent was also amazing. Since then I've had several dreams where I've flown to whatever destinations I've wanted and did so instantaneously - think or will it and it happens. That's the closest I've come to having a similar experience, and that feels incredible.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years passed before I remembered things completely. I think I was eighteen when I first shared the experience with some friends. I don't recall their reaction but it wasn't negative. I tend to remember it whenever I get electrical shocks. I've told my wife and children about it many times.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real then and still is today than most of the life I've experienced during the last forty-seven years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     When you know something to be TRUE in your heart then it is easy to accept it as so. You don't have to think about it or explain it for it to be real. Conversely, it's far easier to question or dismiss that which you don't understand or can't explain. BUT, once experienced never forgotten.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Deep meditation.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am very glad I had the experience. Even if I had died physically that day, I still would be glad to have had the experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1newlin_d_nde.html