{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nicholas_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nicholas C Probable NDE 9452","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nicholas C Probable NDE 9452  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nicholas C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE;Drug Experience  						5079 Nicholas C Probable NDE 9452  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    After drinking about 2.5 beers, I participated in inhalation of THC 'butter' or 'wax.' My friends at the time typically did on a Friday night, while sitting around a fire in my neighbors backyard. After about 3-5 minutes, I began to feel slightly light headed and shortness of breath.  My heart beat was irregular.  I decided to get up to catch my breath and pretended to urinate by the fence in the dark corner of the yard.  Although I didn't actually have any urge to urinate, I was standing in the dark.  Then I began to see a dark tunnel forming, similar to experiences before passing out. Before the tunnel could completely form, I fell to the ground facing the fire and seeing my friends sitting around while my last thought before the experience was, 'This is how I die.'

  The tunnel was still slowly closing.  I was quickly overcome by the purest white light imaginable.  I was so white, it was almost blue.  It was as if if it was there the whole time. My first feeling was fear.  I was almost immediately comforted by what I perceived to be the Creator.  I I can only describe this as the feeling of being a lost child found by his parents and receiving a hug. There were no exchange of words because communication was exchanged through an emotional connection. I did not see anyone, only felt their presence.  It was as if the communication was coming from behind the light or the light was communicating with me. 

  Since there were no words, I can't say with certainty that I was given a choice to return to my body, but it was clear to me that beyond that point was an after-life review. I requested to think about it for a moment.  The response was something like, 'take your time,' as if time was frozen or didn't exist as we know it.   I thought about my dog at my house across the street and decided to stay if I had an option.  I felt like I had more opportunity to do better with my life, help more people, including share my experience with those that do not believe. 

  Before I knew it,   I was being helped up by one of my friends who realized I had fallen, though I stumbled several times trying to stand on my own again. I was conscious or alive again, with extreme cold sweats.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4/4/2020  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Drug or medication overdose       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Drug/Alcohol induced, but not believed to be primary cause of incident. More likely caused by undiagnosed heart issue.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I remember hearing my friend discover that I was on the ground, but did not allow myself to be distracted by it, or didn't have control to do anything about it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I wouldn't say it was beyond normal but it may be worth noting that it was unfamiliar and very shocking at the start.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Upon receiving comfort from the light, when I realized I wasn't alone.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to stop all together.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was fixed on the light, as it was not only beautiful but also the possible source of communication.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't particularly remember anything different or in a different way, but I do remember hearing my friend sound much farther away than I believe he was physically, though this may have been slightly before or after experiencing the light at its brightest.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed to be a very fast or short tunnel, or it happened before I realized it completely. When I realized the light was present, I seemed to be at a gate or checkpoint within the tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Its almost as if I was given a glimpse of a place where only peace exists, through feeling alone.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, uncertainty/shock, comfort, peace, bliss.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     EVERYTHING. Almost as if questions didn't exist, only answers.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I was informed of a mandatory afterlife review if I continued.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I was given the option to continue, though it was clear that continuing meant not returning.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray regularly, though I believe I do not pray the right way. I believe that there are certain ways we are to glorify the Creator, and ways that organized religion has conditioned us glorify the Creator, I believe they are not the same.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I consider myself Christian, but do not believe any churches around me subscribe to an accurate belief of the true nature or description of God/The Creator.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed that as Christians, the image of God held is inaccurate. This was concurrent.   I believed there would be some kind of visionary experience with the Creator, but I did not end up seeing anyone. Just light.   I believed there would be an afterlife review, but I did not expect it to be so literal or so thorough.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My beliefs were clarified and solidified and I can no longer be convinced otherwise.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Did not hear a voice, but FELT words. Almost as if emotion was the currency of language.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I did have the feeling of some inexplicable connection to the universe and all beings in it.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The communication exchanged indicated to me that everything about me was known and nothing could be hidden.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that I am here to "help" people. I was not informed as to how to help others, or what to help them with but I believe it was to help others understand that this is REAL.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     It can only be explained as feeling to aspire to be better, not to do a be a specific thing. Such as understanding love, teaching those around me, connecting with others, appreciating all creations, etc.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Slight glimpse or indication that I would never feel pain again, no suffering, only peace and joy/pure bliss.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I have no doubt that there is an afterlife review of some kind, everything is a test, we are meant to treat each other with kindness, compassion and love. Not only that, but seek out these opportunities to help people, not wait for them to come to you.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Only so much as believing that everything on earth is a measurable test, or opportunity to give glory to the Creator.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Only the love I felt from the Creator/light, and undisputed feeling that I should give love regardless of receiving it.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     My experience was so profound that I am much more aware of mistakes I make and understand that they carry much more weight than I previously ever thought possible.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have always been one to trust and help others, but I now see them as beings that they may not even see themselves as.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words will never describe precisely the experience.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  This event will be something I will never forget. I can vividly remember everything, but still fail to find the words that describe it as accurately as I would like to.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I accept the experience as a whole, but am very thankful that I was given the opportunity to return and fulfill my obligations.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Did not share the night it occurred because I felt I needed time to process it. Shared the next day, to several days later. A friend that was present during the event, refused to acknowledge that what I experienced actually happened, though I had never lied to him or given any reason not to believe me. I have shared this experience with anyone willing to listen, as I made the promise to share it upon returning if I was permitted to.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had always been fascinated with NDE's, watched many Youtube videos on them. Was not certain if they were real. I don't believe it had ANY effect on my experience whatsoever.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The feeling, the communication exchanged, method of communication and the process. I know understand how the Bible interprets the 'Pearly Gates' related to what I experienced, though that would not be my first choice of words.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It will be remembered as long as I am alive.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While in a relaxed state of "meditation," I was able to reach the Creator during a session of serious moral questioning. This was several days, maybe a week after the experience. I asked myself several questions of morality, but received answers almost instantly, as if I was answering myself. While in this state, I asked questions I was sure I did not know the answers to, and still received answers. When this happened, I remained meditative, realizing that the same light I had seen before was in front of me with my eyes closed and had most likely been there all long without me seeing it somehow. I was slightly shocked, ran out of questions to ask, praised the Creator and "ended the session." This led me to believe that we have been taught to pray incorrectly.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sometimes I wish I could revisit the experience to influence and remind me of the beauty we have to look forward to, as it is easy to get "stuck" in life, working a job well below your skill level, with people that are unaware of awaits them.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I feel that this has been a thorough examination of my experience. I only wish that I had found this sooner. Discovered on podcast with Sam Tripoli from guest that had provided information on the topic.            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicholas_c_probable_nde.html