{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nick_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Nick F NDE 3762","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nick F NDE 3762  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nick F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1756 Nick F NDE 3762  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't type so fast or write so well as to be able to get it all down here now, but I hope to get the show on the road. Thanks.

In 1976, I drove from Missouri where I taught 7th Grade Boy's Health Science for a night of moderate celebration. I remember nothing else until I woke up.

I woke up. Didn't know where I was - nothing new there. Pretty soon, I saw a suit walking around. 'Sir, can you tell me where I am?' 'Mr. F, you've been in a serious automobile accident. You're lucky to be alive. Count from seventy backwards, please.'

And life goes on.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Sept. 22, 1976'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a skull fracture.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Time? I don't know what time it was. I was in a coma for seven weeks.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Seven week coma, I didn't bring a watch to time my vision. The time seemed normal.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision had the impossibly bright light, looking at my body from outside and incredible love.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I slid through a dark tunnel into incredibly white light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     One old man with long white hair made me feel safe as a baby.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This light was like a laser beam. And it was like water.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel was shiny black like wet slate.  The light was impossibly white and like water.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was nice. Loving.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not so much specifics from the past, just the fact that I was alright and loved. After having been dead once, I'm not so scared about what today or tomorrow may bring.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more sure that earth is not the end of the road.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Almost none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more sure that earth is not the end of the road.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I cannot think of one bad thing in my coma vision.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't describe some of the feelings I had then and have now. But I try.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Yeah, I am even more positive than I was before. And, I suppose, I cut people a little more slack.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was just one big experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've talked about it. My friends know. One of them thinks it is an unbelievable miracle - and his father survived Buchenwald and Auschwitz.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Gees, I'm sure I knew a little bit about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was damned lucky to be alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am lucky to have had the experience. I should remember it more often.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       A lot!!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Gotta go.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nick_f_nde.html