{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nelson_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Nelson B NDE 22275","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nelson B NDE 22275  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nelson B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2350 Nelson B NDE 22275  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Drank thirty plus cups of coffee on empty stomach from 7 am to 7 pm. While driving home, esophagus ruptured dumping coffee into chest cavity. Lungs collapsed. Mitral valve pushed backward and heart stopped. 

I was hovering about thirty feet into air when two guys in baseball uniforms pulled over and took me out of car and placed me in the back of their pickup truck. One of them gave me CPR while the other one drove to hospital. Hospital attendants came out to truck and put me on gurney. As the gurney went into the emergency room, my perspective was still about thirty feet above. I was one or two floors above my body looking down on the emergency room staff trying to resuscitate me. I recall all instructions of the doctor, color of nurses' hair, names of the people who were given instructions. They used the paddles before they figured out I had coffee in my chest. They made two incisions and stuck tubes in my chest. Coffee was draining out onto the floor. Additional procedures were performed before the paddles restarted my heart. When this happened, my recollection ends.

Use this information wisely. A lady at my office was reading a book called ‘The Experience of Dying’. A couple of months after my OBE, she and I talked about it. She committed suicide days later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 29, 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Lungs collapsed mitral valve imploded.  Clinical death   My heart stopped. Ran car off road. Passersby stopped, put me back of truck and began CPR.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Vision only. No sense of anything else.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Do you remember the old superman movies where superman looked through walls?  When I entered the hospital, my perspective saw through one or two floors of steel, concrete and pipes as I looked down on the emergency room.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just the audio of the emergency room staff.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     After asking my priest to help me understand what happened, he said I had a greater awareness about ‘spirit’ than he did. Disgusted with his answer, I left the Catholic church.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My discernment about spoken lies from others, people in distress and even sounds which seem like other people's thoughts occasionally prompt me to call them on the phone or to pray for them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best-Reevaluated my priorities. Ate more regularly. Stopped drinking coffee.   Worst-The coworker who committed suicide.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The topic usually arises because someone else is either drinking too much coffee, they are undergoing some chronic illness treatment or they have had a similar experience. I rarely initiate this topic.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nelson_b_nde.html