{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1neiva_y_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Neiva Y Probable NDE 3986","mylang":"de"}
          	        Neiva Y Probable NDE 3986  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Neiva Y Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1909 Neiva Y Probable NDE 3986  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was around four years old, I had serious asthma. We didn't know it was asthma yet, so it wasn't treated. One night, I had a very, very severe asthma attack.

Suddenly I was flying, slowly following an angel who was only partly visible down my stairs. It felt very real. I felt wonderful and calm and I wanted to keep following her for a long time. The light was so bright it was almost white. Then I realized that I wanted to be with my mom, and that I missed her. I wanted to go back to my normal life. Then, it felt like the angel was pulling me towards her, but at the same time, I was being sucked backwards. She released me, and I flew through my house back into my room.

When we found out that what I had was asthma, the doctor said that I was very close to dying. I spent many years after that experience wondering what had happened, and wanting it to happen again. I didn't realize until now that what happened may have been a near death experience. It has changed my life, and I'm not afraid to die anymore. Although I want to have many more years in this world, when my time comes, I won't be afraid to go to a new one.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Unknown

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Asthma Attack  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   An asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized that I wasn't ready to leave yet.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like there was no sense of time, and that past the stairs there were no walls or boundaries, just open space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very bright light and bright colors. The angel was almost invisible.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     My stairs felt like the tunnel to wherever I was going.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I followed an angel. I did not know her. There was no communication except the feeling that she wanted me to follow her.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything around me was lit up incredibly, and it was so bright that it was white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm and relaxed. First I felt longing to be with the angel, but then I felt longing to be with my mom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Episcopalian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Now I'm not afraid to die.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Episcopalian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Now I'm not afraid to die.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I realized I needed to go back to my life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me seven years to share my experience with my parents. My mom thinks that it makes a lot of sense, but my dad is slightly skeptical.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I felt it was probably real because it felt so real, but it just didn't seem possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I still think it was probably real because now it all makes so much sense, but it's still possible that it was a dream.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1neiva_y_probable_nde.html