{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nem_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Nem J NDE 5101","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nem J NDE 5101  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nem J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2689 Nem J NDE 5101  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After I took the medication, I don't remember anything; I fell into unconsciousness. I recall a moment when I found myself up in the corner of the hospital room near the ceiling. There was also much light - an almost blinding white light. Looking down, I saw a part of my body and my legs, as well as my parents and the doctors standing around me. One of them was wearing white, the other one, blue. He was young and blond. This lasted for just a few seconds. I felt a strong pain, then nothing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  mars 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Suicide attempt    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I tried to commit suicide by swallowing medication - a mixture of antidepressants. My sugar rate sank dangerously. Yes, I believe it was a life threatening event.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I was up near the ceiling in the hospital room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light was too intense, too white, almost blinding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Indeed - a very intense white light - glowing white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It happened so fast, I couldn't tell what I felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It lasted barely a few seconds. I found myself above the bed. I saw my body, my parents, and the doctors, but also there was a lot of light, and a lot of whiteness; it was a strange and fleeting feeling. I felt a great pain and was in a coma for two days. Since then, I've hardly ever talked about it. I thought I must be crazy and I couldn't manage describing to anyone what I had felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have just remembered something that happened to me. One night I had a horrible dream, too real - I was in jail, and we were packed into jail cells that were too small. A fire started because of a cable, and nobody wanted to open the cells. I awoke sweating. I went and told my parents; they were watching the news and everybody was scared because the events of the dream I had just shared were in the news. Indeed, the jailhouse in my town caught fire, the wardens did not open the cells, and the prisoners died. My father, a doctor, asked me what started the fire. I answered that it was a cable. Two days later, we learned from the French press that the fire had started because of a burnt cable. My father then told me that some people's brains get signals sent by the distressed brains of others. But, until now, I have never connected this to my experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I shared only once, one year after the experience, but I did not know it was a near death experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I convinced myself it must have been a dream. It was not possible - these seconds of being near the ceiling looking down were just delirious. I had never heard about near death experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I watched a documentary film yesterday. A young lady had a near death experience; she described exactly what I had felt - white light, being separated from your body, the feeling that you see yourself from above. I immediately related to what she said. Now I think that what I had believed was just a dream was most likely a near death experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nem_j_nde.html