{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nebahat_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Nebahat A NDE 9580","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nebahat A NDE 9580  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nebahat A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5162 Nebahat A NDE 9580  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I got a blow to my flank, between my ribs and hip area, that left me breathless. It was suddenly dark.   

  I found myself drifting in the air and overlooking beautiful scenery. Toward the right there was a garden fence and beyond that was what seemed to be Heaven. I was mesmerized.  Everywhere I turned it was green with many trees.  I also saw a beautiful shining light. I then found myself looking at the mountain straight ahead of me. The mountain seemed both close and far from me at the same time. I noticed a small black rock with red flowers around it. As I was observing my surroundings, 180 degrees around me, I realized how everything was so clear.  The colors were so alive. I was at peace and didn't feel any pain or distress. The scenery was more real than what we know to be real on earth. I could hear people speak calmly behind and around me but it could not see them. Their voices seemed far away.   

  When I looked back to my right towards Heaven, it seemed to have changed a bit. The trees were darker green and the light was dimmer. I thought about crossing over the fence to ‘Heaven’ but I suddenly got scared and changed my mind. That was the last thing I remember.   

  During my experience I did not recall any situation or person from my real life. I did not see my family, friends, or anyone. It was as if they didn't exist. What I saw and experienced, and how clear and real it was still affects me very deeply today.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1982  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Being left with no breath / no oxygen  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I could not breathe. I stopped breathing.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I could see everything much clearer with more detail. Like the black rock on the mountain was far away but I could see it very clearly as if I were standing next to it.  The trees behind the fence were far but close at the same time. The concept of being close and far away were mixed together. Everything was so much clearer than I could see with our normal eyes.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I went through a very dark, cone-shaped tunnel and came across the beautiful scenery.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     There was no time.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Similar but absolutely not the same. I felt like I was born again both physically and spiritually. I now value nature much more.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Similar. All I heard was people speaking amongst themselves but I could not understand what they were saying. And until that moment I felt alone. As if it was just me and the scenery. But after hearing the voices, I found myself looking toward what seemed to me, to be Heaven.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     A cone shaped tunnel with a not so bright dot at the end of it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     i just heard voices.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw a not so bright dot and while I was watching the scenery the sky was a velvety looking very light soft yellow in color.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A world where i was healthy like i was before. A world where everything is extraordinarily beautiful clear and colorful. Far clearer than in our earthly life.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, peace, love and some fear about passing the fence.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I was scared to pass the fence.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I became more humanist. Religion has lost its importance. I respect all of them, I do not favor one more.  

What is your religion now?       Muslim     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The concept of heaven is consistent. But I gave up on entering heaven and even got scared. I believe in god, but I never thought of god in my experience.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have become more sensitive and conscious especially towards nature. I do not judge people harshly. I respect and have compassion for all living things. as long as they're not bad.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   I heard voices of people but could not identify if they were Male or Female.  They were speaking amongst themselves. As if I was far away.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     It seemed like everything was one. As if all the pieces add up to one, including myself. As I was a part of everything.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I did not think of the creator but realized that the concept of Heaven really does exist.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I didn't know I had died in the beginning. But after I saw the fence, I knew that crossing it meant I could not return.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I felt a great amount of admiration. Very big amount.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I got answers to some private questions. I want to know the .  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I built stronger bonds. I feel stronger.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can explain what I saw and experienced but words wouldn't be enough.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I didn't see myself watching from a halter or seeing people's fuss. I only and only remember the experience clearly  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     my instincts and intuition are stronger I feel as if I have a special power or influence.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am not afraid to enter heaven, the black stone and the red flowers next to it, the speaking of people that I heard but did not understand, the brightness of colors and especially the clarity of the image.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    for 20 years. The people I shared it with were interested in my story and found it comforting.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never forgot my experience and I still think about it today.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I've been researching it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing comes to mind.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nebahat_a_nde.html