{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1neha_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Neha S NDE 7676","mylang":"de"}
          	        Neha S NDE 7676  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Neha S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3944 Neha S NDE 7676  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On February 23,  2015, I was in South Africa for a holiday. It was the second last day of my trip, so my parents and I decided to do the one thing we hadn't done; that was to see lion cubs. This has been my dream since I was 4 years old. When we arrived at the game reserve we went with a ranger to see the cubs. After 15 minutes, the ranger said he wanted to take us to see the other animals, which were all mainly big cats. My parents and I told him that we weren't interested as we had already seen all the animals the reserve has in a previous safari.  But the ranger was very persistent, so off we went. At the end of the tour, he took us to a lion enclosure that we had previously walked past. He asked if we wanted to go in.  We all said, 'No.'  People have done this before and it was listed as an activity.  Even after saying, 'No' he opened the cage and walked in. He asked my mum to come in she said, 'No, I'm scared.' Then my dad also said, 'No.' I said, 'I'm not sure,' but he assured me and I walked in.  Even today, I don't know how and why I walked in. I don't how to explain it. I felt like he wasn't going to close the cage until I walked in. I felt like I was in a trance.

 After walking five steps into the cage, a lioness jumped up and attacked me.  As I blacked out, the lioness took three bites to my head. Then I turned around and she bit me on the side of the head.  Then finally she bit my chest, my right breast, then I lost all consciousness.   While I was in this unconscious state, I went through the most amazing beautiful blissful experience. I saw things about me and my family. I saw my things from the future, like my 19 year old brother with three baby girls pleading with me for help. I saw my entire life. I remember small bits of it now, but barely anything. I went to this amazing beautiful place: Some call it heaven; some call it God; some call it hallucinating.  All I know is that this is where everyone truly belongs. It is where the soul goes. I wanted to stay but then something happened.  I heard a voice, my voice, kept saying, 'YOU'RE ONLY 15. GET UP, RUN!' Then the blissful place in which I was in closed. It was like I was in a portal that looked like a black hole.  It was a black hole with all the colors you can imagine and colors that the human eye does not recognize, and it closed. 

  From here I have no memory.  But in this time, I have stood up, fought the lion, somehow hit it down, and ran outside the cage. I HAVE NO MEMORY OF THIS. All I remember is the feeling I get when I run. I am a state athlete and in that moment, I felt like I was running at nationals.  It was like all my training led up to this moment.  All  I can say is this, only by God's grace am I alive today. Only by God's grace, I will be able to go back to school and graduate in the next few years. Only by God's grace will I be able to help people in every way possible that I can. I am a 15 year old girl that walked into a lion enclosure with five lions and came out alive. No help from the ranger that was supposed to be my protection and safety. My parents were helpless, watching there daughter being eaten by a lion. If you want to know what hell looks like that is it, but everyone asks me why Neha ? why do you call it a blessing you were nearly eaten alive by a lion. I call it a blessing because I understand life now. I look at everything differently. I love myself and everyone else. I have so much I would like to say but I should stop because is only a brief summary.</h5>  				  &nbsp;  					Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  23 February 2015

  				          NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentCriminal attackDirect head injury  Animal attack  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   					          I was being attack by a full grown lioness while being surrounded by another four lions.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  The facts have been checked out  					                I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was no longer in my physical body. I was in the spiritual realm. Being here allowed me to understand my life and why this traumatic event happened to me. Every question I could ever have was answered. I understood life completely. I felt finally at peace, home I felt like I belonged. I wanted to stay but it was not my time. After I was satisfied I was returned to my body. When I returned, the bliss had not left me. I felt no pain no fear. I knew I was going to be okay.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left my body I entered the spiritual realm.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  					                        Time was nonexistent. I am sure. Time is only existent in life, here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The only vision I have before I left my body is the ranger covering me to 'protect' me.  Then the lion's paws viciously flung him off me. Then I see a blurred image of the lion trying to bite my face but my hair is protecting it. My vision was normal prior the attack.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was normal before the attack. While I was being attacked I could hear screams of my parents, me begging for help from my dad and the lion's growl.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like I was in a portal that looked like a black hole a black hole with all the colors you can imagine and colors that the human eye does not recognize.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I kept thinking of my grandmother after my surgery.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A beautiful glow and a glowing river. The glow looked like the sun, fire, light, morning. This glow guided me to my safety as I had no sight. It attacked like my guide.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I entered a spiritual realm. I had complete identity loss. I felt so much power and energies around me.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, happiness, belonging, understanding, satisfied and a state of knowing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was in a complete state of knowing and understanding. I had no questions, no worries, no problems, no fear: nothing. I knew I was finally where I needed to be.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw myself as a four year old girl on my birthday wearing my favorite outfit. I also saw myself when I was born in the delivery room. I saw a lot more which I cannot distinctly remember.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I saw my personal future. The last image I have when the portal was closing was a sketch of a mesmerizing, beautiful, astonishing woman: me. Prior to the portal closing any questions I had were answered. I was shown the earth's life, its beginning and end. Its cycle. When mankind was happiest and at its worst. Then I was told it does not matter. When you feel in crisis you are actually is just how it's meant to be. You think you have control but you have absolutely no control. Everything is already planned, blueprinted. This is the reason I live my life worry- less and stress-free now.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I heard a voice, my voice saying, 'I'm only 15. RUN!' I was in an instant returned to physical life, my body.  				                                                                              

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   I was not a devotee Hindu. My parents were Hindu's so i was too.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My religious beliefs remain the same. All religions give the same message and they are all correct. The older religion 'beliefs and morals' are more accurate simply because the first people on Earth were more in touch with their spiritual life and reflected it better in their lives.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I do not believe in a single religion. I do not think religion should be the focus.I think spirituality should.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My beliefs were there that is why i was able to reach the bliss i was considered to have a good heart. My good heart comes out in my beliefs.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I need to love myself more, instead of worrying if I am doing things right in the eyes of family, friends, myself and God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt the presence of Durga Maa. Goddess Durga is the mother of the universe and believed to be the power behind the work of creation, preservation, and destruction of the world. Since time immemorial she has been worshipped as the supreme power of the Supreme Being and has been mentioned in many scriptures - Yajur Veda, Vajasaneyi Samhita and Taittareya Brahman.The word 'Durga' in  Another meaning of 'Durga' is 'Durgatinashini,' which literally translates into 'the one who eliminates sufferings.' Thus, Hindus believe that goddess Durga protects her devotees from the evils of the world and at the same time removes their miseries. I felt a distant presence of Jesus Christ. I came back understanding Christianity which previously i did not.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Yes i knew i existed prior to this lifetime as i am an evolved soul. The point in which i reached takes you many life times to reach i was 'told'. i have memory of being told i have been born 40 times.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The place in which i reached was a oneness united universe. There is no such thing as me, myslef, i, him or her. everything is one. There is no such thing as individualism.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt the 'gods' presence everywhere. I saw 'god'through a sixth sense as a beautiful glow.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  				                                                                                                              

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know everything I ever wanted to know.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I realised there is no real meaning to life. Whatever path you are taken on you should do your best to do as well as you can. if you live by these two rules you will life happily and blissfully.  1) love yourself.  2) Love everything else: people, animals and nature.  People think the best feeling to have is to be happy, they are right but they forget to be blissful is even better.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was aware that there is defiantly life after death as i saw it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Life is an illusion. The real life is afterlife.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The point of life is to go through hardships you must go through them and still shine.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I loved anything and everything.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       The most important part of my life is my spiritual life. Prior, the desires for my fulfillment were the most important thing to me.     The most important part of my life is my spiritual life. Prior, the desires for my fulfillment were the most important thing to me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I find it very hard to connect with people I was close to prior to the attack. I can barely speak to my best friend.  				                                                                                                                                                  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience I went through is un-earthly. Where I went, there is no such thing as words or emotion. It's just a state of knowing and being in complete bliss. Describing it, while relating it to my attack, can be a challenge. It is like I am describing two different experiences.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can always tell what people are about to say after listening to them speak for a few minutes. I can also tell what they care about most and how they perceive myself and others. I know my future. I do not get surprised because I am aware of the event.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The glow-feeling, the presence and energy of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience 1 day after arriving back in Sydney. Everyone has had the same reaction. No one talks except me. They look at me in shock. Some cry. People, that knew me before the attack, have all told me 'you are a different person'.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Shock. No one could believe I was alive.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience is the realist thing that has ever happened to me. What I went through is reality. Where we are today, how we live today is not reality it is an illusion 'Maya'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I do not think I made it clear, but I was given a choice to return and the only reason I returned was because I saw three newspapers:  Newspaper 1 with my death, Newspaper 2 with my dad's death and finally Newspaper 3 with my mom's death. From this point I stood up. The factor of self-sacrifice is why I am alive.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask for photographs.  					                                                                                                                                                                        					                                                                                                                                                                        				    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1neha_s_nde.html