{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nathan_i_nde.html","mytitle":"Nathan I NDE 4440","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nathan I NDE 4440  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nathan I NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2219 Nathan I NDE 4440  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was Independence Day in the Philippines, June 12, 1981. I was only less than six months working at the Philippine National Bank and had just passed the entrance exams at the Ateneo Law School.

About 7:00 pm, I was about to cross JP Rizal to the other side of the street to take a ride back because I missed my bus stop. It was drizzling; I had to cover my head with my black jacket. Suddenly, I heard a loud screech of a braking van and before I could react, the van hit me on my side, I was thrown about three meters, and was unconscious.

I saw a bright light and had fast flashbacks of the faces of my offices at Philippine National Bank. Then I woke up with people helping me go to the hospital just beside our house at Sta. Ana, the St. Anne's Hospital. I remember that I saw my body on the pavement from above when I was unconscious.

When I regained my consciousness, with the help of some people, I was accompanied to the hospital. When the doctor-surgeon arrived, he immediately informed me that I have an internal injury and would have to be opened up immediately otherwise I will die in a short time. I immediately consented to an operation. An exploratory operation was conducted and my spleen was removed as it exploded inside my stomach as a result of the accident.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12 June 1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  'while I was crossing the street I was hit by a van, I became unconscious but later I regained my consciousness.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I was hit by a van and I was unconscious for a while and I regained consciousness.  I was hit by a van. I was operated on for splenectomy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I became unconscious immediately after the impact. But a few seconds after, I was mentally conscious. This was the time I saw a bright light above. The faces of my officemates at Philippine National Bank came flashing back fast like playing cards. Thereafter I regained my consciousness and people helped me to the hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I saw my unconscious body on the ground and a bright light from above. As if I have the choice which to go to - my body or the light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was very sharp and I could see vividly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything during the time that I was unconscious. I just saw a bright light and the faces of my office mates came flashing back.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was about to go up where the light came from but when I saw my body I instead went to my body.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the faces of my office mates in flashback style. Their faces were just flashing one after the other but there were no communications made.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a bright light from above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I did not feel any emotion. I saw my body from above and suddenly as if I joined my body again and regained my consciousness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that I can see my body (or imagined) from afar just like in a dream. I did not feel any pain during or immediately after the accident. In the hospital my entire body ached.  The faces of my office mates made me come back.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        n/a.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I just told my story to members of the family who were at the hospital. I did not really care about their reactions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have a very strong will to survive. I wanted to become a lawyer. I was about to enroll in law school.  The light could be an imagination or chemical reaction in our brain. I could not explain how I saw my body from about a meter below. It my eyes that saw it without my body, but when the faces of my office mates flashed back, my eyes seemed to have re-joined my body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view of my experience remained the same from the first time I regained consciousness until now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   On March 18, 2004, I was on my way to Baguio City, I was driving alone in the middle of the night when I again saw a blinding light. It's like in the Bible. I am not really a religious person. I started reading the Bible to learn more about it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No more.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nathan_i_nde.html