{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1natasha_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Natasha E NDE 20123","mylang":"de"}
          	        Natasha E NDE 20123  			  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Natasha E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						206  Natasha E NDE  20123  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In 1985 when I was eleven years  old, I fell ill with flu.  This gradually turned into pneumonia, which then collapsed my left lung.  By this time, the doctor rushed me into hospital via ambulance.  That night I was placed into an oxygen tent, but I kept burning up.   I fell asleep and I had the strangest dream.  In this dream, I dreamt that I was in a hospital room that I didn't recognize.  I was in a bed next to two machines, one like a heart monitor and another like a breathing machine.  At this time, my view had floated up to the ceiling by the clock.  I could now see the whole room, where there were four nurses in the room. I knew that this meant I was going to die. I saw one nurse in the room beside my body and this meant I knew I would be OK.  The room was very bright, and I wasn't scared at all!  All the pain I had while being ill had gone and I really didn't want to go back into my body.  I knew that my family loved me and I loved them, so I made a conscious decision to go back into the body.


The next morning I told my mother about this 'dream' I had. This worried her and she explained to the doctor that I was telling her about my death. The strangest thing is, the doctor said he has heard of many stories where people have premonitions of their death when someone is so gravely ill, and this didn't surprise him.


That night I fell asleep again. This I do not remember. By all accounts, I was rushed into intensive care and taken into a room where I was going into cardiac arrest. They put me on a life support machine and on a heart monitor. The doctors explained that when children are dying, they put four nurses/doctors in the room, but if the child recovers, they only have one nurse in the room. This scared my mother as she remembered what I had told her and became very upset.


The good thing is I recovered and they were able to diagnose me with a medical condition and explained why I had suddenly gone into cardiac arrest. I am now twenty-nine years old and working as a graphic designer.  This event though has definitely changed the views I have on life and everything!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In the 'dream' I was very awake! But when I looked at my 'body' it looked very frail led in the bed.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I can't really remember, but I don't think sounds were important in my experience.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happiness that I was out of pain. I didn't want to return to the body.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that I could choose to die or live.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was able to describe the Intensive Care room prior to being sent there. I had this 'dream' twenty four hours before I went.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew I would have a choice to die.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I choose to return to my body because I knew my family would miss me.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believed in God before, and now I only try to believe in myself. I have even turned to Paganism and Wicca, as I feel more liberal in the belief structure.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have the ability to sense if people are very ill, or even sense if they are going to die.  I can sense people’s emotions quite well and have become more aware that I am on a more psychic link with my mother, as we contact each other telepathically.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was losing the pain. The worst was having to choose if I live or die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not many. Some don't believe me and others are just shocked.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1natasha_e_nde.html