{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nathan_nde.html","mytitle":"Nathan NDE 7970","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nathan NDE 7970  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nathan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4133 Nathan NDE 7970  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

  					I was in 5th grade and was walking in a high school.  We were on a school trip.  We had to turn around the school building on a sidewalk that was alongside a road in town. 

  As we left the high school, we went outside in rows of two and holding our partner's hand.  We had walked about 10 meters.  As the sidewalk was turning towards the right.  I had a sudden urge to push my friend towards the road and to displace myself.  A car came from behind and collided with us and hit the school wall.  For a moment, I didn't know what happened.

  I saw my life scrolling by in a flash.  I felt many emotions and a sense of well-being.  All the facts that had been deeply hidden in me and mostly forgotten came rushing back to me while I was in a in whirl-like tunnel. The closer I got to the white light at the end of the tunnel, the more well-being I felt.  

  Then I heard a voice screaming, 'My husband will kill me!' Then I found myself above my body and looking at the scene below.  I saw a woman crying beside her car, my friend stretched out on the ground, and myself stretched out on the road about 4 to 5 meters behind the car in the traffic circle.  I remember that I had a rush of exasperation and in no time, I found myself back in my body.  As I took a breath and my chest rose, I screamed 'WHAT ABOUT US?!'  Then I lost consciousness again.  I was slightly aware of waking up and seeing the fireman who tried to reanimate me.

   The following day I woke up in the hospital. I had some bruises, but my friend had his hip broken.  Since my parents were abroad on a vacation for 1 week, I was staying with friends so didn't talk about this to anybody.    

  Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other Accident when my friend and I were hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was hyper alert in the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt an endless well-being.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was as if I was seeing through a wide-angle lens with a sharp view of the scene below me. Surely, this is because I was above my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was strongly amplified and selective.  It was because I heard the woman screaming that made me come back.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was in a tunnel, but I didn't go out of the tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light at the end of the tunnel, like when looking through a telescope.  The white light got stronger as I relived my hidden emotions.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Well-being and a lot of reactions to my life review.  Then I felt irritation when the driver was talking.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The word 'EVERYTHING' might be a bit strong, but I felt better about my job.  Sometimes I am told that I am visionary when I help a person, or when I get into a state of weightlessness and express my feelings. I never worked them out but I know that they are there. I have my view of the universe.  I had a discussion with my father in law who died shortly after our discussion.  He said something good about my theory and on the day of his passing, he came to greet me before leaving.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     Several, but one in particular is a tender subject for me to talk about.  I was a situation of my childhood that I had been hiding in my depths.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   Aujourd’hui je suis croyant au plus profond de moi dans mes actes et penser, mais il ne doit pas y avoir de nom afin de le respecter et de préserver la paix.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have nothing to do concerning religion.  But yes, now I am believing in a 'GOD' without a name.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     I think that life is an eternal repetitive circle.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Yes, body and soul are dependent on each other.  Consciousness is managing the body and the soul is managing consciousness. This difference can be managed, I believe by a relaxation of the barrier between the brain and the unconscious in order to create a whole. But this is one of my ideas, maybe one day I will work it out.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I had some other experiences that confirmed about the possibilities of my soul. I saw my father in law, coming to say good-bye the day of his passing.  Around 2 am in the morning at the foot part of my bed, I woke up and in front of me he was greeting me with his hand and a great smile. I answered him and continued sleeping. The next morning, my friends said that Claude had died during the night.  They were amazed when I told him of the morning visitation.  Another time, I left my body once more during a game of tarot.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     You have to believe in a whole, and not in a one or singular individual.  The individual emphasizes the human ego and is driving towards auto-destruction of humanity.  I feel that I must believe in myself.  But in order to better my soul in cohabitation with my body, the balance of the soul remains a primordial key for consciousness to act positively.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I learned to act with love and kindness as it preserves a part of happiness.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes With time.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th  I remember like it happened today.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I must have had them in order to have these experiences, but they were untapped. I still don't have them even today.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the image of the woman who is thinking about herself first before the others.  My friend and I were seriously hurt, but all she could think of was what her husband was going to say to her.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had the impression that it was a normal experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     No doubt about it, the experience was real.  This is reinforced because I experienced an astral journey and other experiences

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I experienced an astral journey

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I tried to be as sincere as possible and hope that the whole of this information will be respected.  This only concerns my experience, in your survey religion is nevertheless quite present and I don't think that the key will be found there.    </h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nathan_nde.html