{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1naomi_ndes.html","mytitle":"Naomi NDEs 9420","mylang":"de"}
          	        Naomi NDEs 9420  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Naomi NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						5053 Naomi NDEs 9420  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  When I was 6, I was lying on the couch.  There was a window next to me. I suddenly  stopped breathing  and then felt the most peaceful moment. I then noticed I could float. So I elevated  upwards and went through the wall. My soul or spirit knew where  exactly to go.  Then high  above  the house,   I saw a Being full of a strong,  bright but gentle light that did not hurt my eyes. I  was a happy child, but I never felt so much Happiness as being  with this Being. I didn't  know who he was since  I was only 6 years old. (Later, I knew I was in front of God) He came to me. I was the happiest; like an endless  Happiness, as I was close to him. I started jumping around him like a deer jumps when playing. He smiled at me and felt happy with me.    

  I had 199% brain capacity. I understood  why I was born and the reason was  to be with him. I felt an incredible, weightless  feeling. I remember   this place felt  way more real than life on earth.    I never felt so loved and accepted like in this experience.  

  He was young and  full of love. Happiness is the  best feeling I remember,  as well as the feeling to be with him. But I hardly find words to describe entirely the feeling that his love and presence made me feel.  It was like going back to my real home and  with my real family.   I was having  so much fun with him, I wanted to stay there.  

  He was totally accepting of me. He was not judging me for being annoying,  or jumping too much. The more I jumped and laugh around him, the happiest he was with me. That's why I felt great acceptance and no judgment of my actions.  

  Suddenly,  I went back to my body. My grandma was a nurse who was giving me CPR.  I remember  feeling a heavy and unclean feeling to be back in my body, which was the opposite of where I had been.  I had never felt depressed  during my childhood  until my grandma brought me back to 'life.' I felt instantly  sad. 

  When I was 26 years old, I had a pulmonary  embolism due to taking birth control pills.  I had two clots in one lung. 

   I saw a dark tunnel. As soon I saw the light, I wanted to walk towards it because  I knew that light from before. It was him. All I wanted to do was to reach the light.   I couldn't  see around me as it was really dark. The first step I took,  someone stopped  me by putting  a giant arm on my chest. It was strong but really gentle and never would hurt me.  I push the arm away and said, 'Excuse me, I have to go. The arm stopped me again.  I felt angry. Without  talking, the Being  mentioned my four-year old daughter. I didn't communicate with  words.  It was more like  telepathy. I let him know that  my daughter  didn't  need me and that would  be ok.  I reasoned that if something  bad happens,  she will be back home here with us. He would not let me pass because it wasn't  my time. 

   I should be happy.  Yet  for years,  I felt he brought me back to suffer more since this  life has  been hell. The only thing I know for sure is that there  life  after death and it is way more real than this one.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1987  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      CPR given     Other: I had two NDEs. One happppened when I was 6 years old. I  suddenly   stopped breathing.  The second experience  was  completely  different.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I know I came back differently.  I came back from those experiences  with an incredible  sense  of intuition  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was normal  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Was normal  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tunnel during the second,  the Being  with the light was the same as in  my first NDE  
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Weightless feeling. Happiness with  100%  joy in immense love.
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment.   When I was 6, I had no religion and  my family never mentioned God. I didn't  know he existed,  until I had the experience. I understood many things in life. In my second  NDE, I was 26 years old. I was Christian  but never went to church. 
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

  What is your religion now?       No comment.  After what I've lived,  I strongly believe in God. I clearly saw and felt him when I was 6 years old in the first NDE. After the second NDE, I got closer to God. This was not through  religion, but through the love and experiences I had.  I understood  religion doesn't  get us closer to God. 

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm more empathetic and  understand  more about behaviors. I can feel  when someone I care for  is crying,  even if they are thousands  of miles away from me. I can feel sadness  from them.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Now  I know the being was Jesus. I didn't  know back then about him. I was only 6  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I developed  a great sense of intuition  and awareness towards living things. I strongly believe in Holism  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was confused and  didn't know at the time what exactly had happened and if I was just dreaming  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Intuition  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1naomi_ndes.html