{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1natalia_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Natalia P NDE 9521","mylang":"de"}
          	        Natalia P NDE 9521  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Natalia P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5125 Natalia P NDE 9521  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I went to the hospital for the 4th or 5th time since diagnosed with a heart disease called SVT. It’s a relatively non-life-threatening disease, and it’s easy to solve the issue when having an attack. During an attack, the heart rate extremely speeds up.  Hospitals have medicine that can reset your heart rate, and that’s what was used. They were able to lower my heart rate in the matter of an hour. 

  This time, my heart rate was around 240bpm for 6 hours. The medicine wasn’t working and at this point I had received 6 doses. 

  After the 6th dose, I saw a view of the trauma room. The view came from the back, top right corner of the room. I saw myself on the bed and in the middle of doctors, nurses, and staff who were surrounding me. There was no sound and the ceiling seemed to be glowing, almost completely white. At this time, they were preparing to use the defibrillator on me.

  From then on, I don’t remember a thing until I woke up in the ambulance. We were going to another hospital to stay in the ICU. 

  I couldn’t remember this experience until weeks afterwards. It’s always been comforting for me, knowing that death did not seem as scary as it had seemed before.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 04/09/2018  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Defibrillation after heart disease episode.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)    
 
   How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   My consciousness was extremely low during the NDE. I was flatlining at the time and I didn’t remember this moment until weeks after.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the view of me from the corner of the room, none.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time didn’t exist. Events were just happening and time did not have a meaning.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision seemed to be fine before the NDE. I was extremely tired so my eyes were heavy, but next thing I know I must’ve shut them. I don’t remember.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not remember my hearing prior to the NDE.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The ceiling was glowing white, and was reflecting down onto the hospital staff and I.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt at peace. I was tired, so it was nice to not feel the exhaustion I had just went through. I also felt oddly safe.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I ironically was planned to get confirmed at the church 5 days after I ended up in the hospital. I was still able to go and did get confirmed.  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I do not practice as much since COVID.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     There weren’t many things to compare with my beliefs, but I believe the light had something to do with beliefs.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I saw a light, and I still figure there might’ve been more past it.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel I have matured in certain ways, but it is also because of age.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   That night was a large blur for me, so I could never find the words to explain what I felt that day. I just remember little details and the view I saw during my experience.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family was there during the event. I mentioned the experience to them months after I had remembered it, because I didn’t know whether to believe it or not.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1natalia_p_nde.html