{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nannci_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Nannci R Possible NDE 4157","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nannci R Possible NDE 4157  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nannci R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2036 Nannci R Possible NDE 4157  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself travelling down the tunnel, I was floating, couldn't see myself (my human body) but felt I had some type of 'other' body. It made a loud whooshing, whirring sound, similar to my sleep paralysis sound but slightly different. I wasn't afraid like when I was having sleep paralysis, although I did think, 'Where am I going?' and at some point I could begin to see a pin point of light coming closer to me, which seemed to be getting brighter and moving in a circular motion. 

I then saw different colors in the light like a rainbow, beautiful surreal and unlike anything on earth. Before I could think another thought, I was through to the end of the tunnel and before a grid of those colored lights, which appeared to be some kind of boundary. I was mesmerized by the colors, as a Christian I would describe them as 'Glorified', in layman's terms they were a super high definition unlike the colors we see on earth with our human eyes. They were alive and vibrated a perfect peace and calmness, which washed over me until all I could feel was the same as the colors. I was standing in front of the rainbow grid mesmerized, overcome with peace and beauty and an amazing awe and love for them, it seemed like a very long time but I wasn't bored or thinking, 'Gee this is a long time here,' a long time was like a second. I became so enthralled by this rainbow wall I had this sense of feeling of oneness with the colors, I wanted too no longer just admire the beauty before me, I wanted to merge with it and become truly one with it.

I then moved towards the wall and merged into it. Again, I didn't have any interest to look at whether I had a 'human body', I didn't care for anything, it was like I knew where I was instinctively, but without having the need to think about it. I knew what I wanted to do next which was go beyond the rainbow wall. There was something greater beyond that I had to experience.

I felt every vein; organ and cell in my body fill with peace, compassion, love and acceptance as I merged. The process felt like forever but a split second and I was through to the other side quickly, a place of no endings or beginnings as far as the eye could see, it was the brightest white light emanating a heightened 'super love' beyond what I just experienced with the wall.

The light was amazingly bright but not painful to look at, the light was not just a light it was the power of love. It washed over me so strongly; it washed away all the pain, tears and sadness I ever experienced so quickly that I was left without a memory of ever experiencing them at that moment and instantly. I was overcome with love, the purity, an innocence and a sense of perfection or holiness simultaneously. To describe the actual merging of this is just not humanly possible, it happened so quickly but yet I could feel the bad wash away and the goodness enter and I knew this was how I was meant to be. This was me in the 'right' state of being, everything negative before was a corruption.

I looked across this vastness of light and realized profoundly I was in a spiritual realm. I saw movement in the distance and instantly before me (seemed like five meters away) was the most handsome man I ever laid eyes on and yet he was so familiar to me, he was dressed in white shirt and dark trousers and there was a strong attraction, love was radiating between us. My first thought was, it was my ex-fiancé yet he looked different, far more handsome than in human reality, as if he was glorified. I felt myself suddenly instantly before him. I was able to move at will, at just a thought-desire. We were communicating to each other without words, telepathically. It was like he knew everything about me, where I had come from, every thought and experience and emotion I ever felt, it was a 'welcome home'. I basked in this love but then the next moment he turned so his back was facing me and turned back but it was no longer the same man, it was a man in a brown sackcloth, older and of average looks (according to human standards) with liquid eyes filled with compassion and love. This unexpected departure unsettled me for a split second but the waves of love emitting from this other man were stronger and I was at peace. He grabbed my hand, spoke with me telepathically, and asked me to look ahead of me, and before me, I saw an amazing modern city filled with skyscrapers, with reflecting glass windows, truly beautiful. 

We walked along a path and I was on his right side, on the side of what looked like a botanical garden park. I was mesmerized by the amazing colors of the flowers. Colors I had never even seen before, spectacular roses, beauty like no other. I then looked over at the man with me, I was smiling overcome with joy and happiness, I knew he could feel everything I felt, he knew my thoughts but it was normal and natural here, I knew there, that love never condemns or judges. I don't know how I knew these things but it seemed I knew where I was, whom I was with, but yet my human life at the time never had met this man or recognized that place. I remember thinking, 'This place is beautiful, the flowers are spectacular, I'm so blessed right now,' and he said telepathically, 'Your beautiful and loved, always be full of hope Nannci I love you.'

After this in a blink of an eye, we were back in the never-ending white light only this time there was a group of people standing in a circle waiting for us to arrive. I was motioned to sit which I did and everyone one else sat down also. I felt as though these people were the same as me, new arrivals, we all shared a little about how we felt when we left the earth. One man next to me looked extremely similar to a friend I once knew, as though he was his twin, he told me he was hit by a train. Then it came to my turn. I expressed my feelings, hopes I had on earth and at this point, I knew I was to return. I asked something about my future, it was a long held wish and I was given a number, representing the year when it was to occur.

After this the man in the sackcloth took my hand, I stood up and together we left the group. This bit was bizarre, we didn't walk away either they just disappeared or we did because we were now alone and he was asking me to sit down again in the vast white light as he had something to show me. I sat and so did he and incredibly these white sheets of paper appeared in his hands with black print as though typed that he wanted me to read. I would read one full page and he would put that one down and put another before me. I sat there for a very long time reading what seemed like a hundred or more pages.

I don't recall anything I read or what it was about.  I only knew that it related to me and was very important. After this he said goodbye and left me and then I was back in the tunnel flying fast and woke gasping for air, I became aware my heart was palpitating. I was totally aware of my reality of being back in my body and I was traumatized, I wanted to go back. In my mind I pleaded to God to take me back I didn't want to be here, I wrestled with my dilemma, saddened that I wasn't to experience ever on this earth a love I just felt in its totality and most pure state. I continued to plead and I felt myself go back into the beginnings of sleep paralysis only this time I had the OBE and felt myself floating above the bed and then I was back in the tunnel and flying feeling happy to be on the journey again. I saw the circular rainbow of colored lights in the distance and within seconds, I was in front of the grid of multi colored lights. The only difference was I wasn't able to cross. I was thinking, 'Let me come in,' and nothing happened, it seemed like ages waiting there, I realized then I wasn't going to cross and then I was back in the tunnel travelling fast only this time when I re-entered my body it was with a jolt, a thump I heard like buzzing noise.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'sleep apnea - but at the time I thought it was a dream state as it occurred at home in my bed and I woke gasping for air and I returned to sleep about 15 minutes or so after and returned to the same NDE process of falling through tunnel and arriving at t  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had no idea I had any physical illness, I was overweight and was also suffering with much paranormal experiences which made me anxious and in a constant state of fear/tension. I also suffered with sleep paralysis and OBE's since age nine and again this was often fear driven.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   First part.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       First part.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, field of vision, colors, brightness, depth perception degree of solidness of objects.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More clarity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     a city

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, compassion, joy, happiness, calmness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   agnostic but Roman Catholic as a childhood influence.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nannci_r_possible_nde.html