{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nani_nde.html","mytitle":"Nani NDE 4907","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nani NDE 4907  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nani NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2507 Nani NDE 4907  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After the doctors could not revive me, I found myself above them in the corner of the room. I felt so peaceful and did not want to return to wherever I had come from then. It was like a clear white lit area, I could not see myself, the flesh part, but I could feel everything else of being human. I did not see anyone though.  It was so quiet. I really liked it. This feeling of peace I cannot really describe it all but it was the BEST feeling ever.

Okay, after a few minutes of that (maybe five minutes) I went back down to see what these doctors were working on - I saw that it was me. I, then, for some reason, went back into my body and I felt so much pain as they brought me back to life.

I felt this twice in my life. For some reason I am still here. I am NOT afraid of death now. I welcome it - I am excited to pass on; whenever that may be.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981 and 1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    ectopic pregnancy and appendicitis.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While up above the doctors in the corner of the room.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While up above the doctors in the corner of the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As if I was a million years away from earth time. Like there was NO TIME.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not hear anything at first. I started to hear when I wanted to hear - other than that it was peacefully quiet!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Can't really remember much of that part.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a clear white lighted area that I was in.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt free and happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Too much to mention.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not so sure anymore about a God and a heaven.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not so sure anymore about a God and a heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was in tune with the spiritual world since I was five years old. I was not sure why and I tried to run away from it and hide and tried very hard not to dream.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was so serene and I felt free and peaceful.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the PEACEFULNESS! UNBELIEVABLE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was many years before I said anything to anyone. I shared it with my younger brother and he too is sensitive to the spiritual world. He is limited because he is not ready to accept everything that goes with being connected to the spiritual world. He is not clear from many human worries to concentrate. I help people in this world to communicate with the spiritual world. But I helped only those that I trust.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Not too sure, but I know that I was tired of being here on earth and took any chance to leave the world as we know it to check out what was on the other side. I knew that there was another side of life. Not sure how - just knew it - before I had the NDE.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I see things before they happen and I dream of things to warn others. And yes I validate them before it happens.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No - but I would like to meet others like me. I feel so alone - but I know there are others out there.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Please ask others why did they come on their own while out of their bodies.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nani_nde.html