{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nash_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Nash J NDE 2568","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nash J NDE 2568  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nash J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						824  Nash J NDE  2568  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				I 'woke up' in the pool. Screamed for my father. He didn't come. He was at the pool lip, looking down at me. Before I floated upward, awareness surfaced, I was in a blue bubble, breathing in the water. I saw a thread. Compelled, I touched it. That's when it happened. Pulled into a great blue light, I found myself without body, without anything but consciousness, sitting within, all I can call it (a concept), God. I knew then what I looked into, the days of young life a dream, and all I was, everything that was me had resided for a time within the plane of time. Now I realize I am forty-six today, and use words to describe this experience. However, it has never changed. When I was revived by the paramedics, I told them all I was with God. They laughed and patronized. Yet, I knew that it all happened.

A year later, I went through a windshield at an intersection in Hollywood, California. Again in the care of my father. I died that day also, went into coma - in the ambulance I flat-lined - and as mysteriously as it happened, when I was in emergency at the hospital, I suddenly opened my eyes. I remember that also. It was the same event, filled with more love than I, in my limited body reveal.

Ah, but there is more. At sixteen, I was struck by a train and hit by lightning. Living in Wisconsin at the time (my mother finally awakened and divorced my father [who was murdered by the way]) and moved the two of us to her childhood home - Oshkosh - not much happened until that night of February 28th, 9:28 pm. Thunder-snow abounded. Train tracks sectioned the town as they often do. And there I was in my Volkswagen crossing the track. Since the train took a curve at the intersection of High Street and Division (are you seeing something here, for I see something bigger than I) I didn't see the lights through the snow. The gates and signals were dead, no power to them. Wham! Struck by a two hundred car Soo-Line train. The engineer asked, 'Did you see the accident?' 'What accident?' I asked. That's when I saw my Volkswagen in two pieces. There I was standing on a snowing street, unhurt, not a scratch.

But that is not the last.

In 1983 I didn't want to live. I wanted to go 'Home' to that place I knew existed. Life was too hard.  When I came back from my first experience in the pool, I had 'sight'. It took me many years to learn how to focus my mind to not see. I was tired that night and fearful. I saw a big car on Sunset Boulevard. Turned into the oncoming lane to end it all. The man I hit said it was like hitting a brick wall. Not a soul was hurt. Cars crushed. But other than that - all persons alive.

So there you have it - and there are others.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 1963  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack     My father tried to drown me.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My father was a drunk, my mother at work. He put me in the pool, held me underwater until no breath or bubbles surfaced.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I said above, alertness is still with me. Perhaps the intensity of it has subsided, yet, I live with the knowledge of what happened, know what is beyond, know 'Truth', to put it into finer terms.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the moment the first happened I have been aware. But I would have to say during the drowning, at the moment of hitting the pavement on Hollywood Boulevard, when the train and lightening hit my car, when I struck the car on Sunset Boulevard. It seems to me, the impact ignites.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     All time happened in simultaneity.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Saw the whole of the world. Knew each and every being intimately. Perhaps, to clarify, not their private worlds - it was more like diving into a soup and knowing instantly all the ingredients.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard the world. Could tune into any direction. Focus might be the best way to explain it. If a child was in pain, I heard 'hear' it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The presence of the Universe. What's the term? You know it. It escapes my mind. Ha-ha!  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Blue light. And a pearl or droplet.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A world maid entirely of Gems, i.e., diamond, emerald, ruby, sappire.  All the gems of the world, and there, in the world stands SRI (Interesting, this is the title given to Yogis) And this is verifiable.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, happiness, great joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Yes and no. Since the first experience was at such an early age, I didn't buy what 'They' were selling. I held to my own understanding, not from belief, but from experience.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Vedantist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Yes and no. Since the first experience was at such an early age, I didn't buy what 'They' were selling. I held to my own understanding, not from belief, but from experience.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knew Truth. The illusive truth. I know it may sound crazy, but I can assure you I am a sane man.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I keep my distance from intimacy. Yet, I work intimately with people everyday.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   When revived, I spoke of being in a blue bubble, followed a wonderful thread, and went home to God.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it. Each and every experience has given to me insight into my own personal nature and into the nature of Man.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A dream of being hit with a spear, seeing a white plain in the distance and animals. I say it's Africa, but how can I know. I see caves, dream them, dream putting down pigments of color, picking up a brand or daub or broom, placing the animals there upon the wall.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experiences have never left. When I was four years old (verifiable) I announced to my family that this world in which we live, what we see, understand in the dream. What is real, is the dream. Not bad for a four year old.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still as real as if it happened a second ago.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   See above.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Think you have about all of it - have to keep some things secret.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's good.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nash_j_nde.html