{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1naomi_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Naomi F Probable NDE 2668","mylang":"de"}
          	        Naomi F Probable NDE 2668  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Naomi F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						878  Naomi F Probable NDE  2668  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  After being anesthetized I found myself floating above the operating table. Suddenly I was in the upper corner of the room, close to the ceiling, watching a nurse insert a catheter and other nurses draping my body for surgery. The anesthesiologist was looking behind him at some monitors and writing in a chart. I felt no fear or surprise. It was as if I didn't care that the body on the table was mine. I looked around the room for 'something' but I had no idea what I was looking for. It was more of an easy feeling that I needed to go somewhere.

Suddenly my deceased father was beside me! He died when I was nine years old but he looked young and happy. We talked about family and I told him never to leave me again. He said we would be together again soon and for me not to worry about him. He said I had to return to my body and that everything would be all right. I tried to tell him I did not want to go back. I felt so free and happy but he said, 'look' and I turned away from him to look at my body.

I heard the anesthesiologist say, 'Oops,' and grab a tube and inject something into it. Suddenly, I heard a loud pop and was back in my body. It took a few seconds to go back to sleep and I can remember the heavy feeling of my body before going out. The next thing I remember was being wheeled to my room and seeing my mother. I told her about speaking with daddy. The next day I spoke with hospital staff about the incident and they insisted nothing went wrong in surgery and that I must have been dreaming. If I was, I have never had a more vivid dream or experienced such a peaceful feeling.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1985  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Other Surgery  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It is hard to explain. It was like I knew all things immediately but, have now forgotten.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after leaving my body. It is indescribable!  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time did not matter. It wasn't there if you know what I am trying to say.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything in the room looked dull and unreal compared to my father. He looked bright and peaceful. He looked like what was real.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard many things at once but could choose to focus on what I wanted. I could hear all things at once without being confused or I could listen to just one thing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father. A lot of what we said has been forgotten but, I remember how much he loved me and told me everything would be alright.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       PEACE! Elation. Calm. Sadness at having to return to my body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     It was like I knew all things at once.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None really, had gotten away from the Catholic church.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have returned to the Catholic church.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have returned to the Catholic church.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   But, I have forgotten nearly everything.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I now know there is life after death and I try to instill this belief into my children and grandchildren.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was surreal.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to know when things are going to happen. Like who's calling or if one of my grown children needs me. I know what some people are going to do or say before it happens. This is not consistent though.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love I felt from my father and just knowing he is okay.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my mother immediately after surgery. With my daughter. We have not spoken about it for years.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened! I was there and so was my father. This was no dream. I believed it happened then and I believe it still today.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, 'How have others viewed you since your experience?'     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1naomi_f_probable_nde.html