{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nanette_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Nanette F NDE 749","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nanette F NDE 749  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nanette F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						245  Nanette F NDE  749  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I awoke on what I think was a ship or airplane and there was a young man sitting next to me.  I was lying in a bed.  I have never seen this man before but he was smiling at me in a way that put me at ease.  I asked him if I was dying and he replied 'No.' He told that he and me that I had a long journey ahead was there to keep me company along the way.


When I tried to speak to the other people who were there, I got no response from them.  It was as if I was invisible to them.  The man who was with me said that he was the only one allowed to speak to me.  We didn't talk a lot but it was comforting to have him with me.  He gave me drinks of water and food when I needed it.  He told me it was almost time to go and I told him that I wanted him to meet my husband; that he would want to thank him for taking care of me.  But the man said that he couldn't meet him that it wasn't time.


I awoke in intensive care where I had been for five days.  I thought that I had been traveling to meet my husband when in fact I had been on life support.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    February 15, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident  Choked on food.  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Awake and aware of my surroundings.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   What seemed like months to me turned out to be days.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A young man about twenty years old.  I didn't know him.  He told me that I wasn't dying that it wasn't my time, that I still had things to do.  He just sat next to my bed.   He brought me water and food when I needed it.  He told me he was taking me to my husband and that it would be a long journey.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It seemed to be in a hospital but a very old one.  But beautiful and well maintained

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Just that I have not finished what I am here for.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part would be that I am still here.  The worst part is not knowing who this person is that traveled with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They have had mixed reactions.  Some excused it as a mind trick and others have been curious about what happened to me.  I have been looking for a picture of my husband's cousin who died when he was twenty-one wondering if he is the man that was with me.  But I have been unsuccessful in obtaining a picture of him.  My brother-in-law had a near death experience as a child and he spoke to deceased relatives but I didn't recognize this man.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nanette_f_nde.html