{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_t_nde_7730.html","mytitle":"Nancy T NDE 7730","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy T NDE 7730  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3978 Nancy T NDE 7730  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Prior to the experience, I was under a lot of stress but I was not physically ill. One day whilst at work and sitting at my desk, I felt my eyes roll back and couldn't talk but was screaming within for someone to see me and help me. It was too quick and I woke up in hospital. I underwent all sorts of tests but the doctors found no reason for my episode. It was a freak incident and never happened again. It was a stressful experience after the event. 

About a week after the event, I started remembering an event that was so clear in my mind and it felt so real.  It was not like a dream but like a real experience. Here it is.  

I felt light, weightless. I felt no stress or pain. I was elevating up into the sky. It was night. There were stars and moonlight. There were other people, lots of souls being elevated into the sky with me. I was not scared. I got to the opening of a long big tunnel. It was dark inside the tunnel but there was a light at the end. It was too far away. At the opening of the tunnel, an old man with a white beard was inspecting the souls and letting people through. But some people needed to go back. When it was my turn, he said to me in Arabic, 'It is too early for you.  You haven't finished yet.' Then he threw me back down to earth. That was all I can remember. 

I don't know when I had that experience exactly. All I know is it was at least a week or so after my unexplained collapse that I recalled the experience. I remember calling my mum and telling what is in my mind. My mum is a religious, spiritual lady. She said to me that it obviously was not my time yet and that I must have had a near death experience.  It was like nothing I experienced before and I questioned myself so much before I told anyone about this. I guess if others experience similar experiences then I haven't lost my mind and this could be real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Marital problems and stress.  Other: sudden collapse. Nothing physically wrong.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so focused and my surroundings and on myself that nothing distracted me and I was completely in the experience. Normally I multi-task, even in my thoughts.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All throughout

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was not sure of the speed of the events. It was definitely night, though.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clearer

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was extremely quiet throughout the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Other souls were being elevated up with me. Don't know who they were. There were many of them, though.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a light at the end of the tunnel. It was too far away from me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     We know as Christians that life on earth is not the end. There is life after death and it felt like I was going there and earthly connections like kids and husband didn't cross my mind. I was completely detached.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   The man at the entrance of the tunnel. Not sure who he was. He was dressed in white long dresslike outfit and had a white beard.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     It was like a definite connection between this life and the next. It seems like the same world we live but we cannot see ordinarily

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It looked too organised to not be God. It wasn't questionable. I just knew where I was going. I was going to the other life.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There was a place the souls goingbthrough the tunnel were going too. It was beyond the light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Actually, no. It was unusual but I can express it in words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mum

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Heard stories

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It is too bizarre and unusual to be accepted as definitely real. It's as if my mind doesn't allow me to believe it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Same as before

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_t_nde_7730.html