{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Nancy P NDE 533  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tThis account has a couple of good veridical perception parts verified after the NDE.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy P NDE 533  		  		  		  		  		This account has a couple of good veridical perception parts verified after the NDE.</span>">  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Nancy P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification   						553  Nancy P NDE  123  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description				      					[Nancy was dead for seven minutes from a heart collapse due to lack of blood].


As I stood in the light, I thought, ‘This must be a dream,’ and then I found myself flying down a road, at perhaps 90mph. My peripheral vision was wider than usual and I could see energy patterns (like those optic fiber flowers you can buy) around the trees as I passed them. I was fully conscious of everything; feeling and thinking very clearly. I came to a Y-fork in road and saw a brown paneled station wagon pass in front of me. Next I travelled to my home [on earth] where I stood on the front step, looked at ground, saw frost on grass, and thought, ‘How funny, I don't feel cold?’


Next, I was on my bed and could feel the chenille bedspread. I was very thankful it had all been a dream, but then I heard people talking downstairs and I got up to see who they were. As I confronted them, all hanging out on couch and kitchen table, they started saying, ‘Hello’ and talking to me. I knew by the Southern accent that they must be relatives but I didn't know who they were. As I looked around, I started thinking they looked like people I knew that were dead. They kept visiting. I was talking to a lady that said she had to go, but please tell my mother ‘Hello’ for her and that she still thinks of her. I walked her to the front door and instead of going out through the door, she just vanished in front of me. I stood there thinking, ‘This isn't a dream...nothing is out of place but this woman just disappeared in front of me!’


Then the main lady talking to me said, ‘It's not your time yet, you have to go back.’ Then she said, ‘Think about it ...you remember’. Then it was clear at that moment so I said to her, ‘I'm dead, aren't I?’ She replied, ‘Yes, but it’s not your time yet, you have to go back...You are our go-between’. I didn't want to return and I proceeded to argue about it.


But then I thought of my mother and how she would never forgive herself if I didn't live. Then I lifted off the floor and they all waved and told me to tell everyone, ‘Hi’ for them. I felt like I was sucked up in a vacuum. Next thing, I felt the paddles [of the defibrillator the doctors were using to] shock my heart into pumping, and I sat straight up and chewed out all the people in the emergency room for making me come back.


The next day when my mother was in my room I told her. [She confirmed] that I described the house to a tee; the lights; how some things were switched on or off. The doctor would not comment on my dying, but many of the orderlies confirmed that I had been gone for almost seven minutes. I believe that time is not the same on other side, but more accelerated than here. I have come to find out who all the ‘visitors’ were and have passed on some of the messages they left me with. I now seem to be able to sense spirits and psychically discern things around me (but I kind of did that before too). I sometimes feel homesick for the other side, but I know I have to wait for my ‘time’.


People should not be afraid of dying - you won't be alone, you have loved ones there waiting to guide you. And they are just like us, body and all, but in their prime and healthy. But never consider suicide – it’s like dropping out of school; and you will still have to deal with problems there. If you hang in, you will find love and happiness when we all join up again. Just do the best you can. The experience is even longer than I can write here so if you want more details, please call on me.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    November 30, 1976

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I was dying, bleeding to death internally. My heart collapsed because of a lack of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could astral travel after the experience, like I left a door open to come and go from. I saw my body then, when I astral travelled.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully alert. At no time did I lose consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   If you could time what happened to me, it wouldn’t take that long here but, over there, a lot happened to me to tell me time is different there. I think time is used here to file events. Time isn’t needed over there.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    When I astral travelled, I heard a high-pitched ring in my head that got louder.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     More of a fleeting blackness - like lights were turned off and on - for only couple of seconds.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw family that died before I was born and friends of family too. I had to give messages to people living (I tried). I was told I had to come back [to earth] because it wasn't my time yet.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light instantly exploded to encompass everything, including me. The light was all white but seemed to have a little gold in it. It felt like God. The feelings I felt are indescribable.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     But that's because I was determined to go home to my house so never had a chance to look around other than being in the light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Warmth, love, excitement, and I felt depressed that I had to return.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I felt it in the light, and I seemed to know (after I knew I was dead) that I could travel the world, fly anywhere, explore anything and always feel great. I had no fear.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Life is like school: be good to others, let others know life exists on other side, extend your faith in God, we are part of a bigger plan.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     After the experience, I have, many times, had knowledge of things before they happen, or I can describe events around other people. I receive this knowing through dreams or a form of clairvoyance or sensations or thoughts. Sometimes I can describe people or events that pertain to others.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

After the NDE: 

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Psychometry, clairvoyance, clairaudience, ability to astral travel, I am able to read others’ feelings and events, and I have some mediumship abilities.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I seem to be extremely sensitive to sound; boom boxes and loud bass make me want to cry or scream. It drives me nuts. I go to quiet places like in the forest or by streams to re-energize because there is energy there I can feel. I am much more a loner than before. I pray more, I feel more connected to that side that way.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I usually tell them when I feel them grieving for a dead person or someone who is close to death. I do so to help them heal and take away their fears (if I can) about death. Most have been fascinated or accepting of what I have to say but some will always think I'm probably brain damaged from lack of oxygen to brain. Boy will they be surprised when they cross over!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</p>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_p_nde.html