{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Nancy T NDE 107","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy T NDE 107  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy T NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1481 Nancy T NDE 107  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Surgery-related. I was having ten vertebra fused (as follow-up from auto accident). The surgery should have taken no more than three hours - I was in surgery for over five -- as I my heart needed reviving more than once. With all of the back/bone pounding, this bruised my heart. I was in the post-operative room coming to and talking to the patient in the bed next to me -- when I couldn't breathe. The patient in the bed started screaming for help. I floated out of my body and watched the medical team work on me -- then saw lots of white light -- then faded to nothingness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  I was having 10 vertebr' fused (as followup from auto accident).  The surgery should have taken no more than 3 hours - I was in surgery for over 5....as I my heart needed reviving more than once.  With all of the back/bone pounding - this bruised my hear     This was a day full of life threatening events. I never should have gone into intensive care after the post-operative room -- but due to my heart bruising and needs for restarting my heart multiple times.  I was having surgery to fuse ten thoracic vertebra as follow-up to an auto accident. The surgery was supposed to take less than three hours. I was in surgery for over five hours because my heart kept stopping during this surgery. I had no recollections of these near deaths due to the medications. Finally I was in the post-operative room 'coming to' as they say. I began taking with the patient in the bed next to me asking what she had done -- idle chit chat. As I was answering one of her questions I began choking, stopped breathing, gasping. She (next to me) started yelling for help as she could see I was having troubles. Almost immediately, I floated out of my body to watch as the nurses/doctors came to my bedside. I heard muffled discussions between the medical folks. Then I saw bright light with no real time reference, and then faded to nothingness.  I didn't see myself nor anyone/anything else while in this state.   My official post-operative plan was to go back to a normal two bed ward but given this event, and the events in surgery, they opted to put me in intensive care for three days. I was doped up during this time and only had very few moments of consciousness or unconsciousness there.   Once back in my normal ward room -- three days post event -- I began piecing what occurred back together. I lost three days of time and asked many of the nurses and doctors what had happened, after the fact.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't view myself in this disconnected state. I didn't see other 'entities' either, when in this out of body state, of any shape or size.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The actual instance of out of body and the initial moments of when the medical team was running to my bedside were VERY clear. From there, memories become sketchy.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Other than the initial moments, time was uncertain. After this post-operative experience I was put in intensive care for three days and was doped up.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything being said, as I was viewing my body being treated by the medical folks, was muffled. I don't recall anything else.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After viewing my body being tended too, things turned to lightness then faded to nothing, as stated before.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, curiosity, warmth.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I say yes here only because I had this strong sense of calm and that everything would be okay. There's got to be some sense of 'knowledge' attributed with this.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not unless you count on the 'everything will be okay' feeling.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Raised Catholic - but have not actively practiced since late high school years

What is your religion now?       Moderate   As I age I'm becoming more open to re-establishing a more formal religious program...but have not yet taken actions.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't think this relates to the OBE but I realize that memories and sharing one's life in a positive way are all that really counts for our time here on earth. Everything else is fleeting.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   All I can recall is very short in time span -- could have been less than a minute. It would be interesting to explore it a bit more in discussion with someone else, to see if I can dust off more of the details.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I do have either really strong awareness skills or intelligence e.g. I state what I believe to be the 'obvious' and folks are amazed on my insights frequently. And/or I have this uncanny ability to 'know' where things are, even when I'm geographically separated from people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, I don't fear death. Worst, I'm curious and want to know more about this 'place' and 'event' -- but don't want to do anything to trigger a Near Death either.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some don't believe. Some are curious. Although I've not talked to anyone else who's been there to.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_t_nde.html