{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_t_nde_6240.html","mytitle":"Nancy T NDE 6240","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy T NDE 6240  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2998 Nancy T NDE 6240  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was about 13 yrs. old when at one of the first girl/boy parties I ever attended, a young boy accidentally swung a baseball bat and hit me across my temple. I was knocked unconscious. It was a few years later, when I was about 20 yrs. old and after reading 'Life After Life' by Raymond Moody, that I was able to put a name to my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1966

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was accidentally hit across the head with a baseball bat

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was unearthly. It was all love.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know how I could calculate that.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Lofty, spiritual, ephemeral, remarkable, vivid, loving, colorful, peaceful, etc. etc.!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard telepathically, no words were spoken but I heard the message clearly, lovingly and comfortingly

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There was a bridge that led over to a magical, colorful, loving land. It was filled with everything a 13-year-old kid would LOVE! It seemed to have colors I'd never seen before, flowers, fun animals, puppies, an amusement park with a Ferris wheel made of candy! Absolutely indescribable. I wanted to cross that bridge and get there until this loving presence floated down and gently redirected me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, acceptance, peacefulness and I had choices

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Had I stayed longer, I probably would have because the place was so magical. I only understood that I loved that place across the river and wanted to get there, but no, I didn't seem to understand 'everything!'

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A gentle flowing river that had a little bridge over it

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They've been increased and magnified for the better, more loving and less judgmental

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was raised in a very inter-denominational, open minded ,non judgemental, spiritually based home. I was encouraged to believe in a heaven.  I was raised in a home that studied and respected all religions. My family believed in the power of prayer, spiritual guides,etc. and even at the age of 13, I believed that all things loving were ...powerful. So, shortly after this experience, I told my parents about it and I don't recall exactly but , I'm sure they were very supportive and believing of my story....(they would have been).

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was so young, I don't really know how I was then versus now but I believe I was a good/kind young girl and I know I am a good/kind women now.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A loving, spiritually beautiful female presence floated gently down from my right side and spoke telepathically to me suggesting that I needed to return and not cross over the bridge/river to the exquisite land on the other side. I knew she meant to help me but also that it was still my choice. I gracefully did as she suggested. Somehow, I knew that she knew best.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     there was such a merging of love with the female presence that I felt aware of a oneness with her

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   It was clear that the reason the female presence was suggesting that I return was because I had some things yet to do in my life.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     It was clear even then , that the reason she was suggesting that I return was because I had some things yet to do in my life.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     again, the love emanating form this female presence and the peacefulness I felt made me greatly aware of the ONENESS of LOVE

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I was so young that it is difficult to compare me then to now. HOWEVER, I have a profound belief in life after death, I am very compassionate and have always been involved with helping others in any way I can find ,i.e. at a Hospice, my handicapped mother living with me the last ten years, hands on charity work, etc.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes For the most part, I see the best in people. I have the feeling, because of my experience, that we are all ONE and as such, everyone is doing the best they can with the role they have been given (or chosen)  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to explain or describe the experience but I remember it vividly all these years later

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remembered it ALWAYS...and EXACTLY as it happened ...and I couldn't tell you much else that happened in my 12-15 year age span (except maybe the first boy I kissed!)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     No question, I am very intuitive and almost pursued a career in helping the police find missing children.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The river/bridge and beauty on the other side of them were most remarkable and memorable

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my family immediately after and they were very encouraging and supportive. I was raised in a very inter-denominational, open minded, nonjudgmental, spiritually based home. I was encouraged to believe in a heaven.  I was raised in a home that studied and respected all religions. My family believed in the power of prayer, spiritual guides, etc. and even at the age of 13, I believed that all things loving were powerful. So, shortly after this experience, I told my parents about it and I don't recall exactly but , I'm sure they were very supportive and believing of my story (they would have been). I later told friends who were important to me. However, I decided over the years not to share this with casual associates or skeptic types as I did not want to allow any negativity of my experience to enter my mind/emotions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not NDEs exactly but I did believe in spiritual guides, angels, etc.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember it ALWAYS and EXACTLY as it happened and I couldn't tell you much else that happened in my 12-15 year age span (except maybe the first boy I kissed!)

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I had one somewhat similar experience of equal spiritual magnitude but it happened spontaneously when I was about 16, standing under a tree house that my brother and his best friend Allen had built. Allen had recently died in a horrific car accident. This experience was nothing like a NDE except that I was once again, instantly transported to a place of unimaginable beauty and when I started to gasp and cry because of the beauty, the protective, loving bubble I was in suddenly burst and I was once again among the mundane noise and silliness of my young friends. This experience was as memorable and amazing as my NDE (but I won't go into all the details because I was not anywhere near death) and therefore not relevant to this survey but for some reason I do believe that I was  momentarily 'in the divine.'

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There was such a merging of love with the female presence that I felt aware of a oneness with her. The love emanating from this female presence and the peacefulness I felt made me greatly aware of the ONENESS of LOVE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_t_nde_6240.html