{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_o_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nancy O Probable NDE 7612","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy O Probable NDE 7612  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy O Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3901 Nancy O Probable NDE 7612  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On a Thursday or Friday before a three day weekend that was part of a public holiday on Monday.  I was put in nurses' sick bay of a psychiatric hospital I worked at in Sydney.  I had a spiraling temperature that was probably a virus and was not capable of working. At this time in the mid-1960s the hospital did not have many medical staff on daily. Most psychiatrists were called in as needed. There was a physician who was employed at the hospital to attend to the physical health of the residential patients, but he would have been on leave for the 3-day weekend. 

From what I recall, I was initially given penicillin tablets causing me to break out in a rash. The medical diagnosis of the rash was measles.  I was aware of the nurse giving me penicillin injections and saw her taking my general observations on a regular basis. 

I was floating above my body and looking down, wondering why they were still giving me the penicillin.  I somehow knew this was the problem. I remember seeing from my floating position above the bed.  I can still describe the jaunty actions and dress of the young Doctor who was called in to see me on the Monday holiday.  He agreed I had measles and recommended continuing the penicillin. On Tuesday morning, I saw the hospital physician come in and examine me.  He immediately ordered that they cease giving me the penicillin. I must have recovered fairly quickly over the next 2 days. 

I had no fear of death after this experience. I am aware that I must have been clairvoyant from a very early age in my childhood as I often knew things but was ridiculed for same by family. It was after this experience that I started to have experiences when I see some people at their or just after their death point and on the other side.  When I see them I usually find out later that they died at the point in time when I have seen them or woken from sleep aware they have died. These sights are extremely vivid especially the colors.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June/July 1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness. Allergic Reaction.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I had an allergic reaction to penicillin and the healthcare workers did not realize it.  They kept giving me more penicillin.  I believe I was in a coma for a few days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      I believe in the theories that God is light and love and we all return to be part of the source at  some stage after an unspecified number of incarnations.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The facts have been checked out.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I believe my clarity of events was heightened and I was aware of a number of things happening at the same time which I could not normally have been aware of in a conscious state. Also I believe I may have been aware of the thoughts and concerns of the RN in charge of looking after me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware of what was happening in the room that I was in during the time I was in coma. I could see it all very clearly. I do not recall being aware at the time that I was out of my body until I recalled the events a few days after my return to work. I think I just accepted that floating above my body and seeing what was happening was normal for me at least.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was unaware of time and everything was happening within the same time-line, though now seeing this question, that is not possible from our on earth time frames.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I naturally had good eyesight at this time: 20/20 vision. I could see things more clearly and solidly at that time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I naturally had good hearing at that time, but I recall ‘hearing’ the whispered conversations between the nursing staff and the medical staff.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I believe I may have been aware of some misty-type light forming around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No real emotions just factual 'seeing' of events.  If anything, I wondered why they were continuing the treatment that was obviously causing my problem.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I can't say ‘no’ to this but my sense of self and others was heightened either at the time or immediately afterwards.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I think that after this experience, was when I became aware that I sometimes ‘knew’ things about other people and started to recall events from my early childhood that most likely were a knowing.  At that time, working in a psychiatric hospital, I was afraid to talk about this to anyone in case I was suspected of ‘being mad’ and subsequently locked-up.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   From age 8 to 17 I was very serious in my attendance at church and prayed to God if I was troubled whether for myself or for others.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I believe in the theories that God is light and love and we all return to be part of the source at  some stage after an unspecified number of incarnations.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I remember that I often thought when people talked about death as the end that this was not true but I guess I never gave it too much thought at that age. I have believed in unconditional love since I was approx 8 years of age.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became much more aware of the power of the human mind.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I thought I just knew all my life that life was a continuing experience but perhaps I was more conscious of it from this time.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life. I recall thinking and trying to explain to someone, not long after this experience, that as humans we are capable of doing anything providing we have ‘absolute thought’ and do not allow doubt to enter this thinking.  I still believe this. While my religious life is no longer important to me, my spiritual life is most important in that I have respect for each of our lives and find I can accept people no matter who they are.     Slight changes in my life. I recall thinking and trying to explain to someone, not long after this experience, that as humans we are capable of doing anything providing we have ‘absolute thought’ and do not allow doubt to enter this thinking.  I still believe this. While my religious life is no longer important to me, my spiritual life is most important in that I have respect for each of our lives and find I can accept people no matter who they are.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm fairly matter of fact about life and do not get caught up in other people's emotions. I accept people as who they present to the world.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     (As above regarding 'seeing' some people when they pass over.) At the time I see them, the person, regardless of how sick or deteriorated at the time of their death, always looked, to me, as they did at what I consider the happiest time in their life.  They always look wholesome and extremely happy… their surroundings are usually fields of flowers and trees and are in vivid color. Often at a funeral I will see and hear comments from the deceased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience just verifies for me that there is far more to our life than the day to day earthly existence we are living on earth. Relationships with our fellowmen are vitally important. I feel upset when I see/hear people upsetting/destroying each other.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Sometime in the mid 1990s I became aware that I need not fear talking about my experiences and thus started to share these with other like-minded people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just accepted it was real and never doubted it. Years later when I spoke of it to people, I realized how fantastic this experience actually was and also realized that is when I consciously became aware that I did not fear death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have had one other NDE.  I felt the tunnel but then someone rescued me from being accidentally washed into the ocean and drowning. Also a few OBEs since and because of my seeing. How else could I explain what I saw when I was in a coma?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Not the actual event but I have been out of my body in a couple of incidences.  For example, extreme fear the vehicle I was a passenger in was going to roll over.  I felt as if I was further down the road watching the vehicle out of control and spinning on the embankment of soil on the side of the road; I recall saying to my husband at the time, as he was about to drive off, ‘You could at least wait until I am back in my body’!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It probably made me more conscious of my awareness that life is not just as we see it daily.  There is more to life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I find the bundling of religion and spiritual together slightly frustrating as I believe they are two very different things. Religion to me is a human model of belief whereas spiritual belief is a personal interaction with the universe or source.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_o_probable_nde.html