{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_m_nde_3825.html","mytitle":"Nancy M NDE 3825","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy M NDE 3825  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1798 Nancy M NDE 3825  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the emergency room for several hours. About 3:00 am, they finally told me they had a room for me. My last conscious remark was, 'Thank God.' I then was suddenly in space and saw only a bank of gray clouds about halfway up in my vision. I was not aware of any earth at all. Behind the clouds was this tremendously bright light beaming upward, like the sun when it is going down and goes behind a cloud. This light was much brighter however. I said to myself, 'Wow, I am not breathing, and I don't care.' I do not know how I knew I was not breathing; I was not uncomfortable in any way and was not even trying to breath. 

The feeling I had was of complete joy, peace, and love. I knew I was smiling. I started to go toward the light, when suddenly, from out of the clouds, up close to the light, a set of beautiful mahogany carved gates came out of the clouds and went slamming shut. I felt the slamming of the gates as if it were a very loud bang from behind. The gates were carved to look like a wide basket weave; only they were solid, not woven. I said something like 'whew' and backed up just a bit. I was still very, very happy and full of the same peace and feeling of genuine love. As I was looking at the gates from a distance, a second set of gates, this time of solid, smooth finished mahogany, came out of the clouds at a much closer distance. Again, I felt this very loud bang as they shut and I could feel by body vibrate when they shut. Again, I backed up just a bit, still feeling the same wonderful peace.

Then, I seemed to be sitting on the end of a hospital bed and a very beautiful angel appeared standing before me. My arms were by my side and my hands were in my lap.

She had a full head of very gold, shining hair, that seemed to glow like a halo, but it was her hair shining. Her eyes were pale blue and she was wearing a soft brown gown that crisscrossed in front. The gown was edged in gold and she had a golden rope tied around her waist. I have often wondered why her gown was brown. She wrapped her arms tightly around my body and looked straight into my eyes. She did not speak verbally, but with her eyes, I knew she said. 'You are not going anywhere, you are staying right here.' Her eyes had this stern demanding look, but they also were filled with love. I could feel myself just smiling back at her.

Then, I heard a voice in my right ear saying, 'She had respiratory arrest.' I opened my eyes and it was my doctor telling my family what had happened. I was on a respirator, so I could not speak, but I immediately indicated that I wanted to write. I wrote on a paper that I had seen the light and an angel. I had full comprehension on what was going on and was able to answer all the questions the doctor asked me. I guess he was checking me to see if I had any type of brain damage. I would just nod yes or no and he was very pleased with my responses.

Note: I was in the hospital for about two weeks, and before I left that hospital, approximately eight nurses and three doctors that were not my caretakers would come into my room, shut the door, and ask me to tell them what I saw. They all seemed to believe me and a few of the nurses said it was such a relief to know what may be happening with their dying patients. The story seemed to be a great help to them emotionally.

I have been able to give my testimony to several church groups, and it always seems to help the older people. I love to tell the event and my life has changed so much since. I feel such a love for all people and wish they could have the same peace that I do. I was able to tell my mother my story. She died at the age of ninety-two in June, and I know she died peacefully.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Aug 25, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) respiratory arrest.  I have Myasthenia Gravis. The medication I had taken entered my lungs instead of stomach. Called 911, difficulty breathing. In hospital, I had respiratory arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely aware at all times and could not say any moment was more realistic then the other, except for that bang when the gates shut. It seemed as if my body shook.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A beautiful angel being.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like a very bright searchlight, such as a light that they would use on stage as a backlight for the entrance of a celebrity at a concert.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was not on earth.  I only saw the clouds and the light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, Love, Excitement that I was going to the light, Joy. All very positive and loving emotions.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They have deepened much more.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     They have deepened much more.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Without a doubt in my mind, there is a heavenly place.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have much more tolerance and patience with people now and try to help more.  I also share my experiences with the Lord much more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I seem to be aware of the feelings of despair in people more easily. I sense when someone needs a hug or word of encouragement.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that I do have that angel looking over me, and I will be going to heaven when I finally do die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I came back, to my doctor. I have also shared my experience with many medical people and with four religious groups. I know that the people believed me and my experience gave them peace. One person came to me and said, 'I know you are telling the truth, because you do not dream in color.' I don't know if that is true, but he believed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My stepfather died during surgery and said he was falling through hell fire. He committed his life to the Lord almost immediately afterwards. My Pastor was in an auto accident and was lifted out of his body and looked down to see that his shoe had come off and was across the road in the field. When he came back, he told the office to get his shoe. I have always believed in NDE, so, my experience just verified my belied.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have wondered why there were two different kinds of gates.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still have the same emotions and feelings as before.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If you have any fear of dying, please cast them aside. The actual death experience may not be pleasant, but the joy of the afterlife is something that you should look forward to with much anticipation.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_m_nde_3825.html