{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nadir_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Nadir M NDE 964","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nadir M NDE 964  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nadir M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						418  Nadir M NDE  964  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Please, I want to describe my NDE here.


It occurred in 1994, I was with my friends in a car of one of them, and we were supporting the Saudian football team for reaching the world cup mondial. We rode in the car and I had a feeling that someone was observing me all the time, my friend was driving at a mad speed. I was in the back seat near the door, I was holding the flag of Saudi Arabia and the slogan of the team, and I was sitting in the doorway of the car (my upper body was out of the car). My friend lost the control of the car.


Then I saw something like a fantasy. I looked behind, I saw the lamb of the street, and I was going to it very quickly. I entered the car quickly, and then the story began. I felt that I am so tall, with no weight, out of control. I saw everything of my past life, since my birth. I saw it as if I watch it, then everything disappeared. I was walking, but the step in a width of ten steps. When I turned my face to left or right, I saw persons; some of them observing me, the others were looking at me as if they are waiting for something from me. Others were looking at each other. I saw many people whom I had mistreated or hurt, they were looking at me as if they wanted to take revenge. Then I stopped without my wish, as if there was a sign of compulsory (STOP), though there is a long road to another world in front of me (the end). I didn't reach it yet.


I was so frightened without my heart beating! Then I felt that my body was so cold, I don't know why at that time. Then I felt as if I was falling from a high cliff, I didn't feel the crash in the ground, everything was dark. Then I felt that I have a body, I stood up, then I felt that my body was turning and hit on hard thing in the left and right. Then I fell on the ground, it was very cold. Then I stood up and I saw a light and a face of some man. The man looked at me and escaped, like there was a lion running after him. Do you know who was that man? He was the man who is responsible for burying the dead; I was out of the fridge. The time? It was timeless, some hours finished as if minutes, and minutes ran as hour.


And now here are the information I knew from the people after recovery:


I was dead for about thirteen hours; I was out of the fridge, the time until the people came to me about one hour and twenty-five minutes, though I thought it was minutes. I was very amazed by the time differences. I can't describe the body health in good medical way. Do you want to know what happens during the death?! Believe me, you will not know at all. Finally, I thank you for this opportunity and letting me tell you my story with death, it calmed me down a lot.


I forgot to tell you that all the people who were sitting right and left of me were people who were asking me their rights.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     الموت ودخول الثلاجة

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Nothing, I lost everything in a moment.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The time has no measurement, and the place has no existence!

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Lots of sounds, though I can understand what I have been told word by word.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Human beings.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   As any light, but it is similar to the moon light, not as sun light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I don't know, just the feeling that everything in life will finish one day.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Nothing new, just the ones who I had hurt will take their revenge sooner or later.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     No, no, no, no. I want to say here that behind the boundary is all the truth, and that what you want to know, but be sure that anyone who reached there can not return at all. Never, never.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I was out of control, but I have a feeling that behind that boundary I have a full control.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     Never.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The critical health situation, I can't describe it, but the events of the experience, I can describe them in full details.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     The power of my hearing is amazing! And I know what people have inside their hearts by just seeing, as if my heart talks to their hearts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I learned the lesson, that I have not to hurt people, I don't forget their views to me, and what will happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    Two of my friends died in that accident, I didn't see anyone in my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I want to say that behind that boundary you cannot reach, never, but the level I reached you can reach it, and be saved.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nadir_m_nde.html