{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Nancy M NDE 3307","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy M NDE 3307  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1143  Nancy M NDE  3307  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 3307:  					</p>  					

I had a stent placed in my coronary artery to open a severe blockage. The procedure was uneventful. The nurse came in at about 2:00 am to have me stand up for the first time. He told me that if I felt sick or faint to sit back down. I stood by the bed and that was the last thing that I remember. Three people, two men and one woman appeared in the upper left corner of my room. I could not recognize their faces. The men were dressed in suits and the woman had on a coat that came just below her knees. They didn't speak but only were there.

It is hard to describe the feeling of coming back to this world. I can only compare it to how a ball must feel if you throw it as hard as you can against a wall. This was the next thing that I was aware of. When I came back, I saw the code team standing around my bed preparing to do what a code team does. The nurse had given me epinephrine and restarted my heart so the team left me alone. I do remember saying, 'What the hell are you all doing in here?' I am a nurse at that hospital and had been on hand for several codes. I was very awake and aware at that moment, but shortly after, things were a blur. The next morning the nurse gave me the monitor strip showing my a systole. I can't remember when I understood who my three visitors were. It wasn't too long because I went to medical records after my first doctor visited to look at the medications I had been given. I had only received the appropriate dose of IV epinephrine. I had not had pain medications for several hours and no sleep medications.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  My heart had stopped.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Immediately after the experience. I was neither conscious nor alert DURING the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The beings that appeared to me were in the upper left corner of a small room, but they appeared to be much further away than was physically possible for the layout of the room.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I didn't hear anything and the room was full of people. I know that they must have been talking, but I heard nothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      None.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I go to church because I love the songs, but I feel differently about God and organized religion. I can't imagine that God is very happy with some of the things that are done in His name. All that anyone need do is to love their neighbor as themselves. This is my religion now.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Protestant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I go to church because I love the songs, but I feel differently about God and organized religion. I can't imagine that God is very happy with some of the things that are done in His name. All that anyone need do is to love their neighbor as themselves. This is my religion now.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I am more forgiving. I am less quick to anger. I am more accepting of others. It takes a lot to bother me.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     We had just moved into a home that we had helped to build. My husband, an electrical engineer, had installed some of the wiring. When I came home from the hospital, the light bulbs began blowing out. We were constantly replacing light bulbs. I was certain my husband had messed up the wiring. It checked out okay with the power company and in a few months, I quit blowing out bulbs. I have intuitive abilities that I never had before. I am able to see or feel the spirits of some people who have died.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The whole experience was meaningful and significant to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I was so excited about having the experience that I quickly shared it with several people. I can't tell you how it affected them, but I can tell you that it has had a very positive effect lately on those that I have shared it with.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I was familiar with Dr. Raymond Moody's books. I think that it enabled me to understand what I had experienced without fear or too much confusion.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was very easy for me to view the experience as real as I had the monitor strip to look at. The vision of the three visitors was as plain several weeks out as it was when I had it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I seldom speak of my NDE, but it is in my thoughts several times every day. It has had a huge impact on my life. It has brought some things into my life that are a little difficult to deal with, but I deal with them.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish that the experience and the after effects would be more readily accepted in our culture. I spend a lot of time trying to bury my intuition and other abilities that I have now. I fear that others will think that I am crazy if I tell them about some of these after effects.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>                                                            Experience Description 221:  					  					The nurse and assistant were getting me out of bed for the first time following angioplasty.  The nurse asked me if I felt dizzy or nauseous.  I stood up and said that I felt a little nauseous.  That is my last conscious thought until I was jerked back and found the code team standing around the bed.  In that brief period while I was gone, I saw three or four people standing in the upper left hand corner of what I first described as a TV screen.  My field of vision was more like a box.  I could not recognize their faces, but they were all tall and slender.  They had dark hair and the woman, at least, was dressed in a style that made me think of the 1940's.  I have been in on several codes and know how this hospital runs them, and these beings were not the code team.  The nurse gave me a copy of my tracing showing the asystole.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 23,2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Clinical death   This event followed angioplasty about eighteen hours before.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The more that I reflect on the experience, it's possible that these beings were standing at the other end of a tunnel and I was to go to them.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I had so little time with these beings that I don't remember any emotions.  I do know that I did not feel threatened or frightened.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Shortly after I returned from the hospital, my husband was going to change the oil in his truck before a trip.  I refused to let him do it himself and I called and arranged for a garage to do it.  When my husband got home, he told me that if he had done this himself, he never would have found another problem with his old truck that would have left him broken down on the interstate.  I have had several things happen after that that are strange, but few with the consequences that the first one would have had.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     See above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It is so hard to put my feelings into words.  I now live every day with joy.  Death was not painful or frightening.  The Golden Rule is what I aspire to.  I know that I will fall short of this aspiration -- I already have, but I will keep trying.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All parts were good

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As a nurse, I have been very gratified with the response I have gotten from my peers.  I have told everyone about my visitors, because I believe that it is such good news.  I have found resistance from some of my friends.  I feel almost a force between us such as can be experienced when two magnets oppose each other.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_m_nde.html