{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nan_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Nan A NDE 720","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nan A NDE 720  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nan A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						242  Nan A NDE  720  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I saw a dark tunnel and began to travel out of the top of my head and through it. After traveling through this space, I felt relieved to see an open, expansive area that looked like a night sky. I continued flowing through this expanse without control.  I felt that I was being pulled or controlled through this process. I felt no fear at this point but had a slight sense of curiosity about where I was, but no fear.


After some time traveling in this manner, I realized there were two women with me.  There was an older woman on my right shoulder (who looked very much like the Guardian Angel I saw at age five) who was very calm and quiet and a middle-age woman with dark hair on my left shoulder who was upset and kept repeating, 'It's not time! This is not the right time, oh no...'


Then I began to see a pinpoint of light in the distance and realized we were traveling very rapidly towards it. As we did so, the light became incrementally larger and larger. The color was a very special glowing white, very pure.


As we got very close to the light I saw tens of thousands of beings dressed in white gowns all facing the Light and singing a music I had never heard the likes of before. They were in the service of The Light and apparently, 'singing' praises to The Light.  The Light was filled with the most extraordinary, overwhelming and indescribable feeling of LOVE. Then I came directly in front of The Light and The Light spoke in a man's voice, firm and direct, saying only, 'Go Back!' I was very cocky and said to The Light, 'What do you mean? I want to be here! Hey!' The Light then spoke again and said, 'Go Back! You have a Great Deal To Learn.' I instantly was shocked into recognizing I had no choice and filled with sorrow at leaving, rapidly flew back, re-entering the top of my head, I became conscious in the ambulance and heard the attendant say, 'She's going to make it we hope.'


I have encountered that same feeling only once again, in the presence of a living Sufi Master.


After this experience, which took me a long time to make sense of, I began to have vivid dreams that came true, had strong premonitions. My life was hardly easy before or after but eventually I became curious about religious philosophy and started a spiritual path in 1989 that I hope to remain on the rest of my life.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Suicide attempt     Following suicide attempt lost consciousness in ambulance and was given some drug to bring back to minimal conscious state. Otherwise unknown.Unconscious. Unknown.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Please see above narration.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Please see narration above.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Please see narration above.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Please see narration above.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Please see narration above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Please see narration above.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Please see end of narration above.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Please see narration above. The Light's direction was certainly new!

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Please see narration above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Please see narration above.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   At the time yes, but not so now.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Please see narration above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: The Light and the Love. Worst? Having to leave The Light and return here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Husband and one friend. They were very accepting. I do not know if they were influenced in any way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Please see narration above.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Excellent questionnaire. So glad I found it through Coast To Coast!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nan_a_nde.html