{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1nancy_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Nancy L Probable NDE 3807","mylang":"de"}
          	        Nancy L Probable NDE 3807  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Nancy L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1785 Nancy L Probable NDE 3807  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was nine my parents were divorcing. I was sent to my room and my parents were fighting. My father walked in and said, goodbye to me. As I lay there, in my bed, I became dizzy. The room started to spin, like I was inside a spin-cycle of a washing machine. The ceiling opened up and there was a tunnel reaching up to reveal several elderly men with white beards looking down at me. It was like standing at the bottom of a well looking up and then saw several people peering over the rim at you. I remember feeling that they were there to help. But, I passed out. When I woke up things were normal again. My father was gone. I would call that out of body, I am not sure.

The second experience occurred when I was going through surgery, a routine procedure. The nurse was shaking me and calling my name. I did not want to return to my body. I was having the time of my life on the other side. I remember seeing the dark void of space, then seeing the earth, and it was truly brilliant from a distance. Next, I was enveloped in light. Don't remember the tunnel, just dancing light and color. I had small children and a husband but I had not been happy. I remember knowing myself completely, sensing all that was going to happen to me, being shown the future in glimpses. I was told by 'God' who was very present emotionally, but not in a body, that there were many golden opportunities ahead, and this life is a fantastic gift. I remember feeling the love and fulfillment of being with God and I did not want to leave him or this experience. I argued about leaving - I was told that God would be available to me back on earth if I asked. 'I am there too; it is you who closed the door between us.' Knowing that God would not desert me if I returned made coming back to consciousness easier.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981 and 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction  emotional reaction causing an asthma attack at age 9  Other 'One 1981 I was undergoing surgery, had trouble with coming out of anesthesia, the other a tremendously emotional event leading to breathing problems. 1961'  Not coming back from surgery, not being able to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When talking to God, most joyous and most alive.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When talking to God, most joyous and most alive.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     All things happened within a few minutes of earth time, but, lots happened - volumes happened in a very short amount of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This is hard to explain but I felt everything multidimensional and at many different levels. God's voice seemed to come from within me and outside me and surrounded me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    God's voice seemed to come from within me and outside me and surrounded me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not exactly, no.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Great Grandfather (but I didn't know him) I had never met him in childhood. God.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a place, but can't describe it.  It was made of dancing light but there were features.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme emotions. Flooded with love and joy and longing to stay. Wept when told I must return to my life and body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Yes several future events were shown to me like a fast forward of a movie.  There is one experience that I am waiting for. A trip to Sweden to receive a prize, like a Pulitzer, for I am a writer. I was on a plane, it was amazing.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I definitely believe in God because I spoke with (the light) during my experiencs.  But I do not believe in one particular faith.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am less in line with organized religion but more spiritual and more in line with universal good and love of all people regardless of their religion. The outer package of a person matters much less. I look into their eyes and find 'the real' soul and greet it.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   The closest belief system to my current state is Neale Donald Walsch's Conversations with God material and Abraham-Hicks attraction laws.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am less in line with organized religion but more spiritual and more in line with universal good and love of all people regardless of their religion. The outer package of a person matters much less. I look into their eyes and find 'the real' soul and greet it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have said it already. Yes, Yes, Yes, re-read what I have told you.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love and value others more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Some is pretty clear, some of the visuals are hard to explain. Some of the emotions are pretty intense compared to earth emotions.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was psychic and empathetic before, it just increased a great deal and I am a 'teacher' now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was very meaningful and still gives me goose bumps to remember - after thirty years - the emotional tie is very strong and I sometimes feel homesick for that other world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it. They just don't understand so I drop it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For about three days I felt different, like I was floating. One day I was having a bad day. Then I remember, God, He said, just ask me for my help. I did and felt instantly better, I remembered more completely that out of body experience and conversation with God.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The most important recharging and self-affirming event in my fifty-six years of life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Prior to dental surgery, I was spinning around and heard a humming noise, then left my body. I don't remember that adventure but it did remind me of my childhood adventure, at the bottom of a well.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real and more real than this world ever could be.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       God Bless you in your work. It is very important work that you do it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nancy_l_probable_nde.html