{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1muzaffer_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Muzaffer E NDE 5274","mylang":"de"}
          	        Muzaffer E NDE 5274  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Muzaffer E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2854 Muzaffer E NDE 5274  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was five or six years old, and my family and neighborhood friends took a pick-up to drive to Karatas (city) where there was an ocean beach. Even though the weather was not so good, everyone went swimming. I went into the water with my older brothers, but I couldn't swim and the waves pulled me into the open sea. I was always the shortest student in my class at school, and the water was way over my head - it was two to three times deeper than my height. From underwater, I looked up and saw the surface of the water where the waves were rolling over me. I could feel myself being pushed and pulled by the current.

I passed out in the water, and then I felt myself moving upward. At the height of about ten meters above the water. I don't remember if I was still moving upward, or whether I had stopped. I looked down and saw a hand in the water. I didn't realize at the time that it was my hand - that's where my body was floating.

I saw a young man lift me up and bring me back to the beach. The last thing I remember is, being held by the legs with my head down, and someone shaking me.

This happened thirty years ago, and I still tell my experience to everyone. I do not care if people believe it or not - I know it was real, because it was I who experienced it.

After many years, I found out that such experiences are called 'Near Death Experiences,' and I read some of them. In my experience, I did not see any bright light, but, like other NDErs, I absolutely do not fear death anymore. I am married and have two kids, but I do not fear death.

During my experience, I was very comfortable, and that's how I learned how to be more focused and at ease in life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    boðulma  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was a child; I could not swim and I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I got my consciousness back when someone at the beach shook me, holding my feet up and my head down.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear any voices.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was totally relaxed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I can't really make this comparison, because I was so young when it happened - I didn't have much in the way of religious beliefs then. I do think and ponder about religions and life after death a lot. I think people can make changes in their lives which can affect whether they go to hell or heaven.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I can't really make this comparison, because I was so young when it happened - I didn't have much in the way of religious beliefs then. I do think and ponder about religions and life after death a lot. I think people can make changes in their lives which can affect whether they go to hell or heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain This comparison isn't possible because I was a five or six year old kid when it happened.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     After I got more information about NDEs, I looked back at my life and I realized that I have been living a positive life and have not feared death.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My soul left my body. So when I had certain things happen during my life, I could give them a meaning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I get different reactions from people. My best friend Abdurrahman told me that if he were to have such an experience, he would turn away from ordinary life and spend his life serving Allah (God). Some people find my experience interesting.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right after it happened, I knew that my experience was definitely real. I'm the one who has lived this event and I don't care what others say. I don't think I have to prove it to others. I just want other experiencers and me as well, to relax. When I read the NDEs of others, I am calmed and relaxed, too.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know my experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish to meet other people who have had NDEs.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I can't think of any other questions that you could ask about my experience. I would like you to know that I have told you about my experience with sincerity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1muzaffer_e_nde.html