{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mwila_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Mwila G NDE 8119","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mwila G NDE 8119  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mwila G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4231 Mwila G NDE 8119  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After getting the result of the pap smear, I went to see my pastor.  I was telling him, 'Father I'm not going to die'. He answered 'Who said you will die?' I gave him the result. He was exhorting me and praying. I had to do the biopsy; I got the result of the biopsy on 12/31/2015, the day of the annual prayer vigil. During the vigil the pastor was exhorting before baptizing the year 2016, saying that in this year, everything can happen in your life, but not the worst, God is enjoying when he is doing good to you. The year 2016 was baptized 'A year of divine consolation and of the great harvest'. On 01/01/2016 I started to feel faintness like I never had before, I called the doctor, he was giving me an appointment for the following day, and after this I had been calling the pastor who told me to come to the church for prayer before going to the hospital. On January 2, I left for the church, with my husband. The pastor started to exhort me before praying, saying,' Doctor, the result that medicine showed is correct, but we believe in miracle. We have the power to change what science declares, help us to experience your miracle, remove science and take the teachings of the supernatural; we are preaching the supernatural of God.' He had been talking about the resurrection of Lazarus and added, 'we don't know what lesson God wants to give us through this disease'.  Then we went to the hospital, after several tests I was told that they have to operate on me in the morning. 
 
    					On 01/03/2016 at 7:25 am, I was on the surgical table. At one moment during the surgical intervention, there was a song of our church in the Swahili language - 'Mungu wa miujiza sita kuacha leo ni leo unibariki, Mungu wa Yakobo, usiku wala muchana...' which means ' God of the miracle, I will never abandon you until you will bless me: God of Jacob, night or day  - with very agreeable instruments and fine voices. Then suddenly the song stopped and I heard a noise of putting down the instruments, you would say that I was out of my body and I told myself that I got  anesthetized, what happened and a voice told me, 'No Germaine that's not what it is, live your own experience'.  Immediately, I found myself near the morgue, and facing it, there is a Catholic church. In the enclosure there was a friend physician, I call her and tell her 'doctor, they said that I stopped, tell them what they have to do so that they can continue with the operation'. She would ask me 'where?'  I pointed with my finger in the direction of the surgery room, showing her down there, she was answering, â€˜they know by themselves what they have to do.' I tell her 'This is not what you are talking about; they have done that already, go tell them'. She said 'If they did already then it's over.' I say to her 'Then I become like those corpses that are at the morgue? No! When I looked towards my left I saw a city, you would say a field, and people that I don't know. I continued to tell my doctor friend, 'go tell them' I called her she didn't answer me anymore. I was hitting with my right hand my right thigh, 'doctor and my children? Who will look after them? Go tell them'. I saw from afar that they went to bury somebody of our society, who had been dead for a long time in the grand avenue, and I said 'that I become like this man that they are going to bury? No! He accepted to enter the coffin, not me.' 
   					
 I don't know how, I saw the whole city of Lubumbashi from above, there I started to see the place that I attended with my friend and everything that we talked, but I didn't want to see that , and I was reading the thoughts of the people. I found myself at my church and stayed outside, and there was an extraordinary light. There I found four young people. Recognizing two of them I called one of them and sent him to go to the pastor's office, but the young boy didn't hear me, I was screaming 'don't you have ears to hear', but you would say that he couldn't see me. I started to scream 'Father! Father! Don't you hear my voice, father! For sure you have prayed for me'. No reply. I turned my back to the church and looked towards the sky, I invoked God, 'Lord remember me, have pity of my daughter'. Absolute silence and I was exhausted, then I turned towards the church addressing the pastor, 'that's why you started this song, not to save us, but to bring us towards heaven, ok.'  I was rising in a cloud of flowers and found myself back at the surgery room, passed through the wall, and there I found my pastor and yelled 'Father is there, no?' Nobody paid any attention to me. My pastor said, 'I told you that this woman must live, go back to work'. I saw my doctor (gynecologist and surgeon) leaving the surgery room through the door, and went back to where my body was, but I didn't see this body. 
 
 Before leaving, the pastor was inveighing saying, 'I repeat, this woman should not die'... then he left and the same song came back, they were singing and I was dancing in a hall of flowers, it ended, and was repeated for a long time. At a moment I started to talk:' you look at me like this, don't you feel ashamed, and you thought that I would die?  No! I'm the daughter of the supernatural, I believe in miracle, I'm praying in the ministry of the Gospel for all, we have to bring the fourth message into the world, so come follow me.' The surgeon got back to work, without knowing who ordered him, but I know. I don't know at what moment, that I was walking in a dark city and couldn't recognize the people I met. 
 
 The next morning in the recovery room, I had been telling things to the nurse, I was singing the same song and another one 'You are God, you are God Jehovah, you are God, everybody is testifying that you are God... When I was installed in a room, I started to explain to everybody coming to visit, but most of them didn't understand me, they thought it was the effects of anesthetic. I had asked somebody what had happened, as my husband was telling what I told, I thought that I was thinking it in me. That's when the nurse told me that it was complicated, but let it be, the essential is that you are still alive. After that, I asked my doctor what happened, he said that I had been reanimated, and that they had stopped the operation for a time, and that the work had been quite laborious. That's a bit of the story of my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/01/2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia. CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Level of consciousness and lucidity was the same.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       A bit after the beginning of the experience

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no notion of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience, my vision was extraordinary, as I saw very clearly from afar, and could identify something from afar, even my children I saw from afar as if they would be close, and the city of Lubumbashi; I have seen it from above, which was not the case before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the experience, my hearing was sharp.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Actually no, I didn't cross through tunnel, but I detached from the ground and was rising, then I was dancing in a hall of flowers.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My friend in the enclosure of the Catholic Church, my children, the four young people near my church, the two of them that I recognized, my pastor and my doctor are alive.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When going down to the church there was a light that was not natural.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I had been passing in a dark city where I couldn't recognize the people I was passing. Somewhere there was a barrier, which was opened. As I went along, the barrier closed and there was a little bench, a man and a child were waiting, then it opened again to enter; I wanted to sit down and wait but I had been hearing a voice telling me that I wouldn't be allowed to pass through that door, and then I changed direction.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the beginning, I was very agitated and I didn't want to die.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood that we have to live in harmony with everybody, and that everything is vanity, and that there is an Eternal Supreme Being.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     When I had the sight of the city from above, I saw, when I was one day in the car with my friend, we were talking, and at the same time, I saw the other cars passing and I was reading their thoughts. They had been stopping the procedure and this is true; I had stopped breathing also true.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   To care for my children  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon   Ministère de l'Evangile pour Tous: Communauté des Centres Evangéliques Inter viens et vois/come and see

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon   Ministère de l'Evangile pour Tous: Communauté des Centres Evangéliques Inter viens et vois/come and see

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Reanimation was done, and the interruption of the procedure was real.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     To live my life carefully; not to return the bad that is done to me, above all, to serve God with all my heart. My beliefs in God remain the same.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   At the start of the experience, I heard a voice that I cannot identify.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   When my pastor wasn't answering I came to invoke God, I knew that HE was there, the one who has the last word in the life of a human being.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     At church when I ended invoking God, I had decided to continue my life with God when I had risen in the cloud of flowers.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I don't remember well, when I was near the morgue it seems to me having had a conversation of this kind.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     At church when I ended invoking God, I had decided to continue my life with God when I had risen in the cloud of flowers.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     I don't remember well, when I was near the morgue it seems to me having had a conversation of this kind.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I don't remember well, when I was near the morgue it seems to me having had a conversation of this kind.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     To live my life carefully; not to return the bad that is done to me; above all, to serve God with all my heart.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    Reanimation was done, and the interruption of the procedure was real.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Less than 48 hours after, to a group of people; some thought that it was anesthesia, and others that is was God; you cannot keep something in memory during anesthesia, consciousness doesn't exist. God knows you, you really died and God saved you from death. Some others that I was connected to the mind of my pastor. Someone else said to me that it was a near death experience that I experienced, that it is a great testimony.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I understood that something happened during the procedure, as this was not the first time that I got anesthesia. I had been asking several nurses, one said that I had been reanimated, and when I asked more questions, she said I shouldn't worry; the essential was that I was alive. Then I decided to ask my gynecologist/surgeon, who also told me that I had been reanimated, with an interruption of the procedure. Everything I told my husband, he said to me that they had told him the same before I came out of reanimation. After leaving hospital, I was scared and thought that I wasn't existing on earth anymore; sometimes I didn't want to remember what happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As Above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only to say that God exists, and that miracle is possible.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is tiring, but is good to test the truth of the account. Couldn't you be interested in Africa: Democratic Republic of Congo? There are also some cases of NDEs that pass undetected.  [NDERF Response:  We are very interested in NDEs from all over the world.  If you know of any other NDEs from the Republic of Congo, please share them with us.]      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mwila_g_nde.html