{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vision_changed_nde.html","mytitle":"My Vision of Life Has Changed Forever 2","mylang":"de"}
          	        My Vision of Life Has Changed Forever 2  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  						  				  					My Vision of Life Has Changed Forever  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						10045  My Vision of Life Has Changed Forever  2  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

My first near death experience was at age 45 in 1995. I suffered a massive heart attack and subsequently had a triple by-pass.  After I came to after the operation, I had a distinct memory of moving to another dimension or place if you will. For several months I thought this memory was caused by the drugs but after time I came to believe it was something else.


     I drifted or floated to a place of such calm it is impossible to gauge. There was a blue sky, as blue as I have ever seen. Sometimes today I will look at a blue sky and get a feeling of calmness. I saw tall grass gently blowing in the wind over rolling hills. But there was no feeling of a breeze, nor was there any sound. It was so quiet.


     I was not walking but seemed to be floating over the fields very slowly.  This place was filled with warmth, calmness and an unexplainable feeling of fulfillment and being one with the universe.


     As I was drifting over the hills so very slowly and absorbing this feeling of greatest warmth, I saw “frames” of my children flashing across the horizon.  They were not “still pictures” but pictures of them looking at me, very worried.  They were wanting me to come back to be with them. They needed me and they did not say anything. I could hear them without seeing their lips moving.


     I knew I had to make a choice right then. If I didn't I would not be going back.


     To go on, I would be encompassed by this calmness and warmth forever. It would have been nice to go on. To go back I would be going to a place of hurt and pain. It would be filled with pain and responsibility.  The hurt of emotions, the stress of life. I decided to go back because my children needed more help in directing their futures.  Their future depended on me to be there. It was just not time yet. The children are just not ready to go on by themselves.


     Instantly I was back.


     I saw no bright light or angels or the feeling of a religious entity.


     MY SECOND NEAR DEATH EXPERIENCE happened in 1997.  I was involved in a serious car crash with many major injuries. When I was trapped in the car, I felt no pain even though I had my pelvis broken in two places, a fractured tailbone, a rib that had punctured my lung, a fractured skull and lacerations to my face and part of my ear was severed.


     I had many flashbacks of the accident for months after, but I had a positive and complete memory of the near death experience when I became conscious enough to talk and stay awake without passing out several days later.


     I started talking about my experience to my son first then to others as I became more comfortable talking about it.  Again, I tried to evaluate whether this was from the drugs or was it just the signals that your mind gets as your body shuts down.


     I saw again, a place of warmth, love and friendship. It was something like a tunnel but not round, it was a walkway type tunnel that you see joining buildings or stores together. The type that goes over a street.  Not narrow but wide. I walked along it, or it felt like I was walking but I don’t remember my feet moving. It was not bright on each side of the walkway, but it was not dark either.


     When I reached the end of the tunnel, I could see people. It appeared to be only from their waist up. It was not scary at all. Everyone was smiling and happy.


     I saw faces that I recognized. I saw two grandfathers and my father. It was very dark behind their bodies and I felt the presence of multitudes of others behind them.


      Someone was shaking my hand as to greet me. I think it was my father. He died of Alzheimer's disease and was a mess when he died.  But now he was upright and looking healthy and I realized just how short he really was. All these people were so very happy to see me.


     At that point I felt the need to go back to the living. It was not a horrifying feeling but just a point where it was time to decide. I still don’t think the decision to go back was mine.  I feel someone decided it for me.


     My hand was still holding (not shaking anymore in greetings) the person who I first started shaking hands with.  The hand was very warm and soothing. My hand slowly and gently slipped away as I floated backwards to the living world. The hand was not holding me at all but had a very gentle grip.


     Then it was over. I was back.


      Somewhere during this whole experience or whatever it was, I remember a brown door with an old-fashioned porcelain doorknob on it surrounded by a black background. I knew that on the other side of the door was a religious phenomenon, very bright light and probably GOD himself. This door is always there and is available to everyone. I can go through it any time I wish.  I have a feeling that my hand was on the doorknob and I could have gone through anytime I wanted.


     In retrospect, I am not afraid of dying now.


    One distinct feeling I have is there are people who went to the other side against their will and I feel so very sorry for them. They are happy there because they have adjusted but would rather have spent more time in the real world to stay with loved ones.


     I used to be religious, but am not a religious person today. Although I have now a great respect for deeply religious people.


     I had an insight to something very few people get to see and I am happy to have experienced it. I enjoy telling people about it, but I am very careful to who I talk to about this.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vision_changed_nde.html