{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1murray_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Murray S Probable NDE 7878","mylang":"de"}
          	        Murray S Probable NDE 7878  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Murray S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand Probable NDE  			4078 Murray S Probable NDE 7878  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is transcribed from my Great-Uncle Murray's article he penned for a church newsletter regarding his NDE in the early 1970s. Uncle Murray has since departed this life. I hope he won't mind me sharing his experience here.

In the early 1970s I developed a nasal drip. As my mother had sinus trouble which gave her much the same problem, I dismissed this as the same without getting medical advice. Several months later, I had such a severe headache attack that an ambulance was called to take me to the Hospital. I was treated with painkillers, admitted, and assigned a room on the sixth floor, right opposite the nursing station, where I could be under the watchful eye of the night nurse. The doctor had diagnosed my case as a growth on the pituitary gland which had worn a hole into the sinus cavity, causing infection to enter the brain cavity resulting in meningitis.

During the night I awakened, arose, and went into the hall. The nurse was not at the desk. I assumed that she was taking care of someone else on the floor. I continued on down the hall. About half way down the length of the hall, I came to a set of automatically-opening sliding doors which led into a long dark tunnel, with bright white light coming in at the far end. Although I didn't know where I was going, I felt that was where I was supposed to go. The feeling of happiness and love was overwhelming.

As I started down the tunnel, I noticed a lady ahead of me. As she arrived at the far end, I noticed a man sitting along the side, who was apparently waiting for her, get up, and approach her. They greeted each other most affectionately, put their arms around each other's waist and walked off around the corner into the light.

As I got closer to the far end of the tunnel, I noticed several chairs along the side. It was then that someone I recognized who was tall, straight, and dressed in white, stood up, came forward to greet me, raised his right hand, and said, 'Not now, Murray! Go back and finish the job.'

My first thoughts were 'No! for I want to go on.' The feeling was overpowering, but then I started to think straight. I had a beautiful wife, H, at home. I still had children to raise: R, D, G, K. These were especially important to me. I was a bishop in the Edmonton (LDS Church) Second Ward. I was a science department head and teacher at a high school. I also thought of my many friends and acquaintances everywhere. People are so very important at times like this. It is their faith and prayers that pull you through. These thoughts sustained me all the way back up the tunnel. The doors at the top opened as I arrived. The nurse was not yet back at her station when I passed there. As I entered my room and was looking inside, that is when reality struck me.

I saw me lying in bed.

Ever since this experience, I have such a calm feeling regarding crises in my life, serious operations and illness or death. I have been privileged to serve two proselytizing missions with my wife and hold several other callings in the (LDS/Mormon) church since then.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Early 1970s

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   The doctor had diagnosed my case as a growth on the pituitary gland, which had worn a hole into the sinus cavity, causing infection to enter the brain cavity resulting in meningitis

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See Experience

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     See Experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon   Uncle Murray was born and died a Mormon

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   See Experience

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   See Experience

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Yes     Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events t

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Unknown - experience transcribed from a written account

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Unknown,  experience transcribed from a written account

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   experience transcribed from a written account      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1murray_s_probable_nde.html