{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mustafa_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Mustafa Y NDE 8065","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mustafa Y NDE 8065  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mustafa Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4196 Mustafa Y NDE 8065  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The experience happened in 1999 or 2000. I felt a severe impact on my right ribs, as I was hit from behind. First, I felt a severe pain but it only lasted for a short moment, maybe one second. 

 I entered a tunnel that was almost completely dark.  I was travelling upward with a great speed when I came to a sudden stop.  I found myself in a dark place. There was a middle-aged man there with white dress on who was standing some distance from me. His light was the only brightness in that dark space. He came towards me. When he got close, I felt he had a letter in his hand from which he was reading. When he finished the letter, he returned to me.  I was back in the tunnel again. Then I saw my body that was lying on the ground and there were people around me. My viewpoint was from the room ceiling as I saw my body and the people who were around me. I could see them from behind. After a few moments, I entered my body and opened my eyes. 

 I now could see the face of the same people I had seen from behind. This scared me that my viewpoint shifted from the ceiling to the floor in one moment. I got up, opened the door, and went outside.  My pain was gone.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1378

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         ضربه شدید به پهلوسمت راست از پشت سر  Other اطلاع ندارم  Blunt impact to right side from behind.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely Pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I couldn't hear the sounds, everywhere was quiet.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was looking from the ceiling when I was about to enter my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't have any hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I entered the tunnel and travelled up very fast.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   See experience

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I entered a tunnel and saw a man with white dress. In the tunnel, I had a good feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I try not to hurt or steal from any body, love every one, and act so everyone likes me. I participate in religious and charity events.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had heard that when one dies, he sees the angel of death who is very horrifying and extracts your soul with lots of pain and suffering. But this was not true.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to be a good human, help others, and do good deeds.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I faced a man with a white dress who was radiating bright light.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I think the man with the white dress was an angel.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I entered the tunnel when I exited my body. When I entered my body, both feelings and states existed.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't like to see anybody sad.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     After this experience sometimes, I see myself in my dreams and sometimes I have seen entities and we even have talked, but it is very scary for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      It was as real as filling out this questionnaire. Even more real than my breathing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definately not real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I explained.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mustafa_y_nde.html