{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1muriel_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Muriel F NDE 2040","mylang":"de"}
          	        Muriel F NDE 2040  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Muriel F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						486  Muriel F NDE  2040  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I saw a light and experienced a warm blanketing feeling around me. I felt really at peace but was looking behind me for my husband and baby. I was really concerned for them. There were the presence of people saying to me that my time wasn't up. The presence of God was there reassuring me. He/she/it had commanded for my attention and it was as if they had pulled my attention towards them.

Once I had become focused on this higher being, a voice had said to me, 'Muriel don't worry, Buck and Roy will be fine. I just need you to listen to me and understand what I am saying to you.' I replied okay.

The being (God) said to me, 'Don't worry. No matter what happens you will be alright.' I thought that this was a strange thing to say to me but intuitively knew that everything was okay and became focused back onto Buck and my baby. Before I knew it I was coming out of the anesthetic.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 24/6/1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedChildbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Couldn't say.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I went into surgery at 12:00 noon and emerged at 3:00 pm. When this experience had occurred, there was no sense of timing. It seemed like the experience had taken a brief second to occur but when I had emerged from the operation it was three o'clock in the afternoon.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was normal but could not identify peoples' faces or presences visually. Did see light and colors ahead of me but for the most part the experience was emotionally, physically, intuitively experienced.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Met with people even though I couldn't identify them. They were like angels who had been here on this earth before me or who knew me. Met with what seemed to be God, light was around both God and these people, but couldn't see their faces. They were trying to tell me that I wasn't finished with my time here on earth.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Intuitively knew that if I went towards the light I would not return to my husband and baby.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Worried for my husband and baby.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I had sensed that these beings knew something that I didn't and it was in relation to the future.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   not religious really but do believe in god  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There is definitely a higher order of things and we are being looked out for. After being diagnosed with a life crippling disease and piecing together the events that had happened, a sense of justice is starting to come into effect for my injury.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   still believe in god but not religious  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is definitely a higher order of things and we are being looked out for. After being diagnosed with a life crippling disease and piecing together the events that had happened, a sense of justice is starting to come into effect for my injury.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   At the time I thought it was odd that such a statement was made that I would be okay. My first thought was 'what do you mean by that?' before I could question this statement I was coming to. It was like they knew something that I didn't and they were reassuring me and encouraging me to not be frightened.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't think that I would be believed or that is was due to the effects of surgery. The experience causes me to be very emotional.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Had an experience in 1987 after suffering from a serious bout of alcoholism.  I had hit rock bottom at this time and had an experience where I was lying in bed being treated by a doctor. Instinctively I knew that I was close to dying. A presence and a warm blanketing feeling had occurred with the voice asking me to make a decision on whether to stay or whether to go. A point of clarity had occurred where I had realized that my whole life had revolved around alcohol and that I should try life without alcohol. I knew that if I chose to go there would be repercussions for my drinking. After this event, I got sober and have remained this way for the past sixteen years. I've been reluctant to discuss this event because it is put down to the effects of alcohol and the state of mind that I was in at the time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The difference between the first time and this time was that I knew that there were beings looking out for me and that I no longer feared death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Once I had mentioned it to a church elder and she put it down to the effects of alcohol and my state of mind. I never discussed it with anyone since then.  The situation that occurred at childbirth I have not discussed either because of this belief and because it is quite emotional.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The first time through my alcoholism, it was very real and had transformed my life. But as time passed, I seemed to disregard it as something that had happened because of alcohol. The second time at childbirth, the situation was very real and remained with me clearly to this day.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was being given a message from a higher authority. They knew that something was going down and because I was under an anesthetic, I had no way of knowing what had really happened. The events that had transpired years later confirmed my experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1muriel_f_nde.html