{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1murielle_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Murielle T NDE 7879","mylang":"de"}
          	        Murielle T NDE 7879  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Murielle T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4081 Murielle T NDE 7879  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This happened on a Saturday morning. I woke up with a throbbing migraine what intensified despite trying to calm it.  I was alone in my apartment, my husband went to help his sister who was moving.  I got to bed and the pain intensified even more.

My heartbeats accelerated, but my breathing became slower.  It became more and more difficult to breathe.  Then there was no respiration at all anymore and I had the feeling that my heart would explode. The pressure upon my thorax was such that I couldn't do the slightest movement, let alone scream.  I saw like an immense multicolored iris and entered into. I lost consciousness.

Immediately after that, it was the feeling of intense cold that was 'waking me up.'  I found myself in absolute blackness.  I had an impression of intense speed.  Then I saw an iridescent fog that formed a tunnel and I felt a feeling of plenitude and well-being.  I arrived in a large park that was illuminated by a diffuse light that was not a sun.  I saw groups of people conversing and they seemed in no way amazed by my presence. I also wasn't amazed.  

I came to a rounded structure whose surface was made of multiple facets in the shape of triangles.  I was wondering of what material they consisted as I touched one.  It had an aspect of glass, was warmer and softer than glass, even though it had it's transparency.  This sensation of volume and touch was showing me that I wasn't dreaming.  A door opened.  I really don't remember anymore how I found myself in a big hall.  It was like an amphitheater that had an immense screen, that was also composed of the opalescent facets.  

Then the hall was plunged into darkness.  I felt surrounded by people that I couldn't really see, but whose slim silhouettes and blue skin, I could distinguish.  I still had this sensation of well-being.  The screen illuminated and I saw my life passing by.  But the life review was not the most interesting thing.  It was the scenes concerning the earth that I found most interesting.  I saw our earth, or rather scenes that happened on several places on earth.  I was in a rage; complaining about unfairness that made poor people starve, while others were cosseted without scruples.  This was contrary to my earthly beliefs.  At the time I was a communist and strongly believed in class struggle.  

I heard laughs of the beings surrounding me.  They were saying things like:

"She really forgot everything"

"But they are the ones that are rich"

"You will see later on what we want to tell you."

So I learned that our planet would experience very difficult times.  Since the planet itself was also a living being, it would follow it's own evolution.  The earth would not be sacrificed for human beings.  They talked to me about earthquakes; about more and more frequent tornadoes.  They also talked about how they would 'get rid' of humans through war and disease.  I was also told that the earth serves, and will continue to serve, as a place of evolution and consciousness.

I got back to my body and my bed after more than three hours. I was rigid and cold from the feet up to the knees and from my hands to the elbows. My husband arrived home at the moment when I was able to move my head again.  

My life changed and I became much more tolerant and loving. Joy developed in me and I know that it will never disappear.  I passed earthly trials; one of them was surviving cancer.  Now that I'm old, I still feel much strength.  I learned a lot, thanks to the practice of kinesiology.  This helped me, and still helps me, to be able to transmit and give the confidence that certain people are lacking.

It's the first time that I'm sharing this experience with other people than my entourage,.  If this can help, please use it for the good.

Thank you for allowing me to express myself.

Kind regards, Murielle.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         à la suite de maux de tête insupportables  Other arrêt fonction respiratoire

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Reality was more clear and tangible.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       With the 'guides'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was explained that time didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Really sharper and of a larger span.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sharper

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Going there, a tunnel of white fog, like passing through a cloud

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met beings and had the impression, not only that I knew them, but that I had been working with them in that place.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A golden light, but diffuse, not aggressive.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Unknown or rather that I had difficulties remembering it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first rage, then amazement, even bewilderment; then a great serene joy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood the reason for why we came to earth.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     See Experience

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw many scenes of the future.  For example: AIDS, the tsunami, and the collapse of the money system that has not yet happened.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed being pragmatic, and like my grandfather, I neither believed in God nor the devil.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't have the same view at all upon events. I felt more responsible and patient.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard the beings surrounding me talking to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     J'ai eu des preuves matérielles d'une vie précédente, en fait imaginez un chapelet, les grains représentent les vies et les espaces la vie qui continue.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     In fact, we would be like the petals of the same flower.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     In fact, I understand that we are all but one, and that more evolved beings sometimes incarnate, but that God was in fact the whole Creation, the ONE and the multiple.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I personally was coming in order to overcome a feeling of revolt that was buried in me, and at the present time to accomplish, as best as I can, for my reason for being here.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     They are serving us, to make us evolve towards more serenity; we are choosing them at the moment when we are building up our life program.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     This is effectively what I learned and I even saw a programming of life on earth.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I didn't tell about the chamber of programming that seemed so familiar to me / for a terrestrial life, the person, together with a group of guides, is choosing what will suit best for him/her.  For example: the future birthplace, the future parents, the great moments of his/her life and the type of trials/ordeals.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     See previous response.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is a state of being, what doesn't mean just being, but also understanding and compassion.  It's like a plant whose joy would be water and sunlight.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       My spiritual life became important, but I cannot imagine God under the aspect of an old bearded person.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel much more serene. I sometimes happen to fearlessly attend places known as ominous.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I don't remember my moving as precisely as this experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I developed faculties of clairvoyance and magnetism.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I got the quasi-certitude, that I came from that place where I found myself. I do what I can to improve what can be improved, while respecting the choices of the beings.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband, who was a bit bewildered and skeptic, but who in the long run realized the veracity of what I entrusted to him.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely rea.l     For me it was very real, because its memory continued, and especially because of the sensations of touching during the experience, and then the things foretold what happened, for example the tsunami.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Because of the above-mentioned reasons, and because my entourage is benefiting from it and is delighted.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sometimes I get auditory messages from deceased relatives, comforting and sometimes amusing.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe in asking what has changed in the perception of 'being' (existence) and 'having' (material); that's changing a lot.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1murielle_t_nde.html