{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mukurarinda_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Mukurarinda D NDE 6820","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mukurarinda D NDE 6820  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mukurarinda D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3399 Mukurarinda D NDE 6820  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a boarding high school. One day, I got sick, because malaria was rampant in this area. When I was taken to hospital, there was no sickness detected in my body, but I was growing weaker and weaker. The doctor told my father to take me home so that I can be traditionally treated because chemical products could not help me. I was taken home. After only three days, I became mad. I started to scream and speak in a loud voice day and night.

My parents took me back to the hospital. In the car on the way, the car could not continue, because of some technical problem. I was taken instead to a small clinic for treatment. I was always in a loud voice and talking about a number of things. I was administered and given a needle with a medication to help me sleep. I slept then without waking up. While sleeping, I saw a big light. I was very thirsty and I saw a big tree, and inside the tree was a bottle full of water. I saw then a hand holding that bottle and the hand brought it from the tree. A voice told me, 'Drink’. Like a vaccination drop, it fell in my mouth and my whole being was refreshed. I didn't need to drink the whole bottle. Just a drop. Then I started to see many things. I saw a ladder from earth to heaven. I, and people from all countries, ascended on it. While at heaven's gate, which was closed, I saw myself alone before the gate. Then a man opened the gate for me and asked me, ‘Are you coming into heaven?' I said, 'yes'. He widely opened for me and I entered heaven. I didn't know where others had gone. If I left them behind or if they went ahead of me, I do not know. The man who opened for the gate had many keys on his right hand, from the fingers to the shoulder. Many keys indeed. He directed me in which room I will go. I went and entered that room and found there Jesus Christ. He welcomed me in his office and had me sit before him while in between was a small table. Before anything, he stretched out a file with some written papers and he started to read everything I had done on earth until the time I ascended to heaven. Then He closed the file and asked me, ‘Do you agree to have done this while on earth?' I accepted all. While reading them, it was like a video or like you are doing it that moment. There is no way to reject it whatsoever.

He told me, ‘I want you to go back to earth. There is something I want you to do. After you will finish it you will come back here in heaven and live here forever.' I said, ‘No, I want to stay here.’  He said, ‘No, just go back.’ I said, ‘NO,' I want to stay here. He spoke in a cool voice and convinced me to go back to earth. Before I left heaven, I asked him one thing, which he granted me. I asked him to let me go into the heavens, see what is there, and come back on earth. I went into the heavens and the first people I saw were angels singing, no taller than the others. All were on the same level of height. 

There were no musical instruments, no drums, but their voices were more vibrant than artificial instruments. My impression was to go and sing with them. So I stepped ahead to join the choir, but a certain invisible power, very strong, stopped me from joining the choir. I cried tears because I could not sing with angels that time. Those who were near the body in the clinic could see tears but they could not know why. (They told me after.) Then I chose to move around in heaven. Beyond the choir was a very wonderful place with a big chair and the One sat on it. I could not reach there since I could not even join the choir. 

While I was taking a walk in that beautiful garden into the heaven, Jesus came to me and told me, 'Don't you remember that you need to go back?' I said, ‘yes.' He showed me the way back from the heavens to near his office, then to the gate. The man who opened for me while entering, he opened for to get out of heaven, but at this moment, he asked me nothing. While I stepped out the gate, he closed the gate, and I started to descend from the ladder. While on the ladder, I met someone who was like me. If I tell you, I don't remember which form I had, only I was a powerful being full of vigor, without any need whatsoever for food, drink, or clothes. I was amazing! The person I met was the person who in few minutes passed away. (I was told by onlookers in the clinic after.) He was in the same clinic room with me. He asked me what happened to me in heaven and I told him. I asked him what was happening on earth. He asked me to open up my eyes and see the earth (where we are). What a dirty place, what a confusing place. I was too clean, too holy to step on earth. 

While discussing, I advised him to go up into heaven, maybe they would accept him. I told him, that I was going down on earth to do something, which I would know while back on earth. I kissed him bye, and I stepped down on earth. While coming down near where my body was, just on a sick bed, I saw my body. Meanwhile, the doctor had declared the previous night at 8:00pm that I had passed away. It was the night when he said so, but when I came back, it was in the next morning at 7:00am. I looked at my body.  I just uttered insulting words on it. It is a useless thing that one doesn't need to waste time on. Very stupid.

I had to enter the body that time, and I didn't want it because of the uselessness of the body. I had no choice other than entering the body. I cannot tell how I entered the dead body, but it was like when you put your hand into your pocket. As I entered the body, remember what the Doctor had said, that I had passed away. My death story was spread in the village. It was very sad that a man lost his first born and they sought a burial place in the village. Now, as I entered in the body, I made a slight movement by hand to an aunt that came in the clinic crying tears and mourning, holding my body.  She is the one that that announced that I was alive again. Doctors, nurses, social workers, everybody ran to the room where I was with fear. Surprisingly, when doctor examined me he confessed that I was alive again. He apologized for the news about my death he spread before. But look at me that time; you could see bones of my body through a transparent skin. I didn't know how fifteen days had gone by while I was there. I spent more days there starting to eat like a babe. They had to carry me out and bring me inside, just a skeleton.

While having those visions, I saw other things, like people being killed because they were sinners. I made a queue to be killed, but someone I do not know told the killers that he knew me, so I was spared. But hundreds upon thousands died.

When I gain normal strength, I sat people around me, especially those people killed because of their sins. Much blood was scattered everywhere, but they told me to shut up because to them I was like prophesying evil upon the peaceful country.

When I told them about heaven, they couldn't believe, but I assured them that everything they do, heaven counts it and for sure that this life is a shadow if a great life we shall life in eternity.

Thirteen years went by, and I was engulfed by a strange fear. I was asking the Lord, ‘What do you want me to do Lord?' It was a good time to remember that I was told to come back on earth to do something and go back to live in heaven.

Then one night the Lord called to preach the truth (His Word) and tell people about the reality of the future life. Which I am doing today.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 5th - April 20th, 1989'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  People were around my body crying. I saw them and to me they had no reason to cry tears. Instead I could suggest to them to cry for themselves because of where they were in dirtiness on earth.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was clear. The voices, paths, songs, and myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was most intense in many places, but especially when I was asked to go back on earth.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I didn't how twenty five days went by.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision during the experience was a clear, powerful, and doable. Today, I may not even know what to do.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was wonderful. There was no confusion at all. The hearer and the auditor. No 'sorries,' no repeat again, everything was clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't really know. Events could proceed without my own effort.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Where I was during the experience there was only light. Even in the earthly night, in my place it was always light. Very bright and cool.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went and entered heaven.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was crying tears. I felt extreme joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Heaven and earth, in a spiritual viewpoint. Are not so apart from one another.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Sinners were killed.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I parted from earth to heaven.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was sent back because of something important I have to do on earth before I go back heaven to live there eternally.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Because I had to preach and in Catholic Church only priests preach, I had to be in a church where I have this opportunity to do so. I am a missionary. I served in Nigeria and I am in Rwanda working in a ministry called for which I am the founder and President.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Things I knew in religion and things priests didn't tell me till now.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My beliefs became very strong and committed with the vision to live eternally. Value someone's life and protect it for a purpose. Feed the hungry and needy.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus took a big part in my encounter

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God exists and where he was I was not permitted to reach, even to the place of the angels' choir

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Useless life here on earth, and life has a purpose when you do what God wants you to do and one must make this effort to know about it.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is life after here on earth, very important.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Everyone should seek what is the will of God is on his life and live it accordingly.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Jesus touched me showing me love and talking to me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I walk knowing that this life has an end, and that at the end I will have another life. I help others to discover what is life for them and what they do here to prepare themselves to live the future in eternity.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Before I didn't know or I was not sure of what the purpose of life was. Now I walk accordingly.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The way I was feeling you can't imagine or feel the same. It was just for me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I could see the choir sing beautiful songs.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is life after death for everyone born. A good life or bad life according to what and how you are doing here on earth today.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They couldn't believe in me because they had not heard anybody telling them such stories before. It was beyond their understanding. And I was anxious to see that nobody was hearing me. I didn't know that there was a place to share my testimony until I heard from a local radio about a testimony of a man who came back to life, and he named this experience a near death experience. I searched and, wow, I found you and now here it is.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     People outside couldn't know what I was experiencing. I was in my world and none else could enter there. The something I must do, I was told about it after.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     What I was told to do, I do it, and I press on doing it. And when I do it, I feel satisfied and the results touch many lives.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life after death is real and will depend on how one lives his life here. One must seek to discover what is the will of God in his/her life and act accordingly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mukurarinda_d_nde.html