{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1murray_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Murray R NDE 2502","mylang":"de"}
          	        Murray R NDE 2502  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Murray R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						786  Murray R NDE  2502  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I sensed that I could move between earth and a sphere above earth as I wished.

Being able to move like this was wonderful. A feeling of total freedom was experienced. I could invite my wife to go with me at stages. (Anny and I are not legally married, but we have been together for ten years. I refer to her as my wife.) When I visited earth, the daily life circumstances were experienced. When I visited the upper level, everything was so wonderful and perfect. If you wanted to go somewhere, you get into a car and you moved. Time was no factor. I then moved in a place that seemed to be a kind of factory. In this factory was state of the art electronic equipment beyond your wildest imagination. The main function of this equipment was to produce CDs and DVDs. There was a young fellow working there controlling these machines. I was standing next to a shelf stacked with DVDs. (It seemed to be uncountable, there were so many). I coincidentally saw a DVD in front of me with the words on the cover, 'WHY NUMBER 28?' I took it from the shelf and on the cover was a photo of myself. I then checked the back, and there was written, 'Murray R was born 1962 and lived up to.' There was no date. 'He was a talented man who played music in various bands.' And I was actually reading my own life story. All the detail will take a while.

I called the young man that was working there and asked him what this was all about. He replied that this was a DVD of my life. 'May I see this?' I asked. He took the DVD from me and put it into a player; where after the video of myself was flashed onto a big screen. BEAUTIFUL. There I saw myself standing on a stage with my bass guitar playing with a band when I was about twenty years old. I saw some other scenes as well, as I was busy with music all my life. Excited, I called the young man and asked him whether I could have this DVD. 'No,' he said.

'Why?' I asked.

'Because your life ain't over yet. When your time on earth is done, the DVD will be released.' Disappointed I turned away and left the factory.

Then came a new scene.

A voice: 'Murray!'

'Yes,' I answered.

Voice: 'You have been dwelling for long enough now, it is now time to make a choice where you want to go.'

Surprised I was. 'A choice, want kind of a choice?'

Voice: 'You have three choices.'

'Okay,' I said, 'what is the first one?'

I cannot remember the first choice, because I rejected it without giving it even a slight thought. 'What is the second choice?' I asked.

Voice: 'Your friend Len.'

(Now, Len and I were friends for more than 20 years, but he passed away a month or two before I had my accident. He was the leader of a famous gospel singing group in South-Africa called Jubelatum singers, Almost like Dallas Holm, where he got his inspiration from.)

'Len?' I asked doubtful. 'But how would I know if this choice is Okay?'

Voice: 'You may have a look.'

'Okay,' I replied. 'How do I do that?'

Voice: 'In front of you is a machine. You can go to the future or to the past as you wish, just push the FF or REW button.'

I then pressed FF on the machine and it went at an incredible speed until I stopped it.

Suddenly I stood at an open field.

'What now?' I asked.

Voice: 'Start walking.'

I walked for a while.  Then a bright light appeared on the horizon. The light was like sunrise. You don't see the sun, but only the rays. It was a light with the most beautiful colors, which I have never seen before. As I came closer, it became brighter. I then noticed a wall. From the other side of the wall someone was playing the most beautiful music. I stood still and listened. Then I realized it is my friend playing his keyboard. 'But it is Len,' I said.

Voice: 'Yes, it is Len.'

Very excited I asked whether I might speak to him?

Voice: 'No.'

'Why not?' I asked.

Voice: 'After you made your choice you will be permitted to pass through the wall, and then you may speak to him.'

Disappointed I said, 'Okay, what is my last choice.'

Voice: 'Anny.'

As I said, Anny is the one love of my life and we have been together for ten years now. Once again, I had to FF the machine. I said to myself I want to go to 14 November 2005, I pushed the button and in a flash, I was there. As if on a big screen, I saw Anny and myself sitting at a table. We were chatting, laughing, and seemed to be happy. With this scene I realized Anny and I were still together, which meant I wasn't dead, I also looked for crutches which I didn't see, and that meant I wasn't paralyzed, I felt comfortable with the situation.

Voice: 'Well, what is your choice?'

This was it, I thought. The time has come for me and where must I go. 'If I go to Len all my suffering will be over and everything will be perfect with no pain?' I asked

Voice: 'That is correct.'

If I choose Anny I have to go back there. I saw myself lying on the bed with all the wiring and monitors connected to me.  I had a pipe in my mouth. Realizing that I have to cross a couple of bridges and walk a long road to recovery which going to involve long-term pain and suffering and it is not going to be an easy road to walk.

Voice: 'What is your choice?'

'Well,' I said. 'Considering that it I am going to recover as I saw on the video, I am only forty-three years of age, which is relatively young, I do love Anny, and I feel that I still have a couple of chores to complete on earth, considering all these factors, I choose ANNY.'

IN A FLASH MOMENT, ALL WAS OVER. I then didn't experience anything further from there on.

It is now 22 February 2006. I am still in the process of recovery, as my nerve system was damaged, because of a neck injury. My neck was broken at three places. I am thankful to be alive. God must have a master plan for me. I think.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Unknown (I was in hospital) July-October 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       I was in hospital during the experience.  Other I can't say for sure. I had a car accident, but I definitely must have been in hospital for a while when i experienced NDE, because i saw myself lying on the bed attached to the monitors and the pipe in my mouth.  Car crash.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was at a very high level at all times.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Time was no factor.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was not allowed to communicate until I made my final choice, but I could sense that it was my friend playing his keyboard on the other side of the wall.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw light rays with the most beautiful colors.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was a wonderful experience. Making choices was the difficult part.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I saw myself on a stage playing my bass guitar with a band when I was about twenty years old.  I cannot say for sure that I have learned anything, but I definitely look at life with new eyes, and a different point of view.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Faith  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do see religion in a different way. More likely in a sense that I don't want to criticize others beliefs.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Faith  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do see religion in a different way. More likely in a sense that I don't want to criticize others beliefs.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I approach family matters totally different. In the past, I would accuse the family blindly of things, which didn't even exist. Now, I will listen, think it over then give my opinion in a calm manner. It frustrates the family slightly, but are getting used to it.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The beauty of it all is that I know there must be a higher level out there and that we are not alone. There will be something for us after life on earth.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It must have been three months. The first person I shared it with was Anny when she directly asked me if I ever had such an experience. At first I decided not to tell anybody, I feared that people would laugh at me and think I am foolish. She cried after I told her this.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I gained consciousness in hospital I realized my choice have been granted. My situation was miserable. I couldn't talk, my neck was broken, my arm was broken, my leg was broken and there I had to face the reality of my choice that I made.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am feeling better. Although I am still recovering, I am at work and can move without any help. A wonderful feeling and my wishes are coming true.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1murray_r_nde.html