{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1muhammad_obe.html","mytitle":"Muhammad OBE 2219","mylang":"de"}
          	        Muhammad OBE 2219  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Muhammad OBE  					  					  						Home  						Classification OBE  						658  Muhammad OBE  2219  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

It happened when was about to have a ureterectasis surgery, I have an Egyptian friend who's got his PhD (in anesthetic drugs) from a university in London, he had his own researches in hypnotism and I had my readings in parapsychology and the neo-spiritual facts.

I have attended his hypnosis sessions with another patients and I saw how it worked, so he suggested I try hypnosis for my surgery rather than the usual anesthetics. I was in the military from 1997 until 1982, so I was eager to try this new experience, so I agreed. In the surgery room the operator, who was not Egyptian, totally refused the idea of hypnosis - so I was anesthetized in the usual way using medicine.

Once I was given the shot, and before it was released out of my arm, I started to feel like my soul was being liberated from my body, it was going out of it, and began to rise. I was laying on my back while I was rising up, I reached the ceiling and entered the next floor, but I wanted to witness the operation, so I thought I would turn around and let my face look down. I remember I descended a little bit until I got myself in the operation room once again, and my back almost adhered to the ceiling of the room. From above, I could see my body laid on a table, and surrounded by a doctor, two of his assistants and a couple of nurses, and my friend the anesthetist was still holding the shot, and slowly releasing my hand.

One of the nurses pulled away the green sheet that was covering me, and I saw my body completely naked, now the other nurse held my penis and said, 'Oh doctor, his thing is too small.' and everybody laughed. It was so weird that I didn't feel shy that I was seen naked. I just laughed with them. Then I just realized that nobody had heard me laughing. I started talking and loudly calling at my friend to tell him what was happening with me, and the experience that I was going through, but nobody gave any attention, for I wasn't seen or heard by anyone. That was sad, for I badly wanted to share with my friend the experience that I was going through (which I had previously read about it). I was afraid that he wouldn't believe me when I told him about it later when I recovered.

The doctor held my penis and started to let a tube in its opening and pushing it forward. I was amazed I couldn't feel any pain, as if I was watching someone else, and not myself. After the tube reached a narrow portion of my uterus the doctor found out that there was something wrong with the balloon he was about to install, or it was missing - I don't remember very well now, to be short, he just realized that he wouldn't be able to install any balloon - and he got so mad.

I cannot tell how much time the operation took, but I remember that I didn't have the usual sense of time that I used to have while I am conscious. While the doctor was pulling the tube out of my penis, he was pulling it hard, and then let go of it, and so on, for a several times. Then suddenly I screamed for I felt a terrible pain while he was doing this. One of the nurses said, 'I guess he is getting his conscious once again,' and suddenly I felt like being pushed rapidly inside my body, and started to black out - then I felt conscious once again - and so on, till I felt that they were moving the trolley I was laying on to another room for x-raying. After that, I was completely unconscious.

I woke up after that to find myself sleeping on a bed in one of the hospital rooms. I had no idea how much time had passed, then my ether doctor came to check on me. I asked him how did the operation go and he claimed that everything went fine. I mentioned the balloon. So he added that the doctor saw no need for it. I uttered, 'He saw no need for it? Or there was something wrong with it?' He was astonished. I added, 'Shame on you. How could you let the nurse make fun of my small penis.' He was so astonished, how could I ever know that, who has told me? So I told him about the experience I had been through. He was amazed. He had already read about similar experiences but he had never really took part, although he hadn't seen my soul leaving my body.

He started asking many questions and asked about every single detail. I gave him precise answers until he was persuaded that I was really saying the truth.

Although it has been twenty years since I have had this experience, its memories are still fresh in my mind. My wife didn't really believe me when I told her, but she was completely convinced when she had her own experience herself, almost ten years ago. But I guess she excelled me, she was nearer to death than myself, and even walked into the tunnel and saw the white creatures, and talked to them.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 عام 1986 تقريبا  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Undergoing surgery.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Incredibly fast.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Time seemed to go faster than usual.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt I could see anything I wanted to see, hear anything I wanted to hear - I could go anywhere, fast and easy - I just had to think about it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unusually bright light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peace or pleasantness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   مسلم معتدل - ولكنى للأسف غير مواظب على الصلاة  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   مسلم معتدل - ولكنى للأسف غير مواظب على الصلاة  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   No longer in conflict with nature.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Different experiences, rather spiritual ones, I could meet with religious people who had died years ago. I had real gatherings with them, I also met with someone who claimed that he was Adam (peace be upon him), and the same person said that he is prophet Alkhedr (peace be upon him), and that he has never left people or earth ever since he was created. Once he dies, he is reborn again in another body, and he proved it to me - he appeared to me in more than sixty different persons - in less than one minute. * I hope what I am saying will not be considered as insanity or religious extremism.  * Similar experiences are familiar in Sufism (Islamic Mysticism), concerning liberation of soul, and ability to communicate with dead people and prophets.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything, the problem is not with transmission; the problem is how to receive. As not all, what is known is being told, and not all that is told is told on time nor is told to its people.  Belief in Allah, comfort and satisfaction.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1muhammad_obe.html