{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mrs_grace_nde.html","mytitle":"Mrs. Grace NDE 7649","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mrs. Grace NDE 7649  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mrs. Grace NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3925 Mrs. Grace NDE 7649  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I developed acute pain in my abdomen that was diagnosed as appendicitis. I took some analgesics and antibiotics. Then I consulted a surgeon in a private hospital and he concurred with my diagnosis. As it was an inflammatory type of diagnosis, he suggested removing the appendix without any delay. My mother was with me the night prior to the surgery. She expressed that she was afraid that something might go wrong. I consoled her, telling her that I understood her anxiety as it was expected. But I noticed that I was, also, afraid of death. I sat down, meditated, and prayed. I said to myself that ‘I am a soul inside this body; my conscious is clear, God shall guide me, and I shall not fear’. I was relieved of fear immediately and slept like a baby. They took me to operating room. I had mixed feelings, but had decided to remain calm. The doctors appreciated my attitude and an anesthesia injection was given to me. 

I counted to about 12 and noticed that I was in complete consciousness but felt bodiless and a kind of lightness. It was like being lifted above the cot. I felt bright and saw myself moving effortlessly inside a self-illuminated tube. The tube had a brightness, which I have never seen. It was a divine brightness and a pleasurable experience. I insisted on moving forward, but suddenly started feeling the reverse events. I felt heaviness of the body, as I started carrying the weight when I moved. I then heard doctors conversing among themselves. 

When I opened my eyes, I saw they had a fresh sign of relief over their faces. I was curious of what had happened in the operating room. On enquiring, one of the doctors said hesitantly that I was dead during the last stage of surgery, but he didn't reveal anything more than that. 

I believe this was one more sign of my creator, as I have been blessed with many events that are more miraculous in my life. Today, I live nearer to God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  14 yrs.back

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Surgery-related

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I had a much clearer consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I could even think and analyze

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't feel any concept of 'time'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision, consciousness, thinking were all crystal clear during the experience

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything through my ears. But there was some pleasing sound I noticed via my bright and light body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a structurally transparent tunnel with curvatures appearing to allow me to move as I moved my body even slightly. It was completely glowing on its own. I didn't see its end, as even its end was as bright as where I was. It was like there was no separate entity-like body, tunnel, surrounding, and end.  But everything was merged into one brightness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I haven't seen any light like that. It was bright on its own.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt I was on my most awaited homecoming as I was returning back to my own home.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Blissful, blissful

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that I exist universally: As though everything is known to me since ages.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I was aware of my worldly identity and about the purpose I was there

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   Born in Hindu family. Believed in universality, one creator.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Reborn Christian, since 3 yrs

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was more of doubtful person. Afterwards I became more confident in being spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     By living more of 'human life', one can experience divinity, is what I believe now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     During my highschool days, I was shown pics of a tourist place by my friend. I felt that I had been there sometime.I drew some buildig structures which I felt had seen to her.I was surprised when I came to know that things existed in that place.I was sure I never visited them before.Later I found some more pics which were almost the same I drew. I haven't visited that place till today. I was also told by my spiritual guru not to get bothered by such things but to live the present time.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt it clearly.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt that somebody is watching everything which was happening.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I believed more in an almighty power.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I felt as though I was here with some purpose, not very clear.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I believed that there is an afterlife, as my conscience was so clear & strong. It was like I know that I exist

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt that bliss and love together

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I am more lively, compassionate and more human.     I am more lively, compassionate and more human.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am able to understand and serve people better than before the experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was not a worldly but a divine experience. I can't explain it in words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Except for being more kind and compassionate, I don't claim any extraordinary powers. I consider these values no lesser than any gifts

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have been mysteriously saved from accidents and illnesses, even when most experienced doctors declared me to be gone soon.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother and husband about my experience, the same evening. My mother seemed to agree with it and said that such out of body experience had happened to my grandfather, too. Whereas my husband didn't consider it as important.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it as real, as I cross-checked for any unusual event during the surgery. They matched. Whatever I experienced was with my clear consciousness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a wonderful life-changing experience. It made a better person out of me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is good for anybody to believe in afterlife, even if he doesn't experience NDE, because it makes him more human.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mrs_grace_nde.html