{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1muhammad_e_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Muhammad E Possible NDE 7194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Muhammad E Possible NDE 7194  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Muhammad E Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3660 Muhammad E Possible NDE 7194  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  				  Experience Description  					</p>  					I could not sleep and finally at approximately 3-4 am, the 29th of April 2014, I fell asleep.

I saw entities that looked like humans but weren’t human. They had white clothes and their faces did not look human. They looked like fluorescent light; they were bright. In my sleep, I felt I was at my grandmother’s house. I could see a hole on my forehead like a bullet target. But there was no blood. The white entities were not all different heights and they had surrounded me. One of them was opposite me in the air near the roof. They said they were here to take me away. They wanted me not to take any more breaths and I listened to them and saw a bright light come in from the direction of the door in the room. All around me was movement. There was another light coming in front of me, lower than the roof. It was coming though the wall exactly where the entities were standing, but all of a sudden, the bright light ended. The entities spoke again telling me ‘do not take any more breaths we want to take you with us’.  

I again stopped my breathing and the entities appeared again. This time I felt light and I saw myself as the bright light. I was floating up towards the tunnel of light. I heard voices of entities who were calling me. A lift appeared in the room and two entities came out of the lift. All the light ended and the tunnel was no longer. But the entities of light were still there. They said ‘don’t take any breaths’. The two that came out of the lift were like human but you could not see their faces.

Just a red and blue light, like a spark, were their faces. This was around 8:00-8:30am in the morning. The night before at 7pm I had taken a tablet and around 12 pm ate dinner. At 2 am, my blood pressure went up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  30/01/1393

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Due to the fact that I was asleep and due to the conversations in the dream from the person who came to take my soul, I realized that I had stopped breathing for a short time.  I was sleeping when my breathing stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I noticed my body was floating up to go towards the tunnel and saw the two entities emerge from the lift, I questioned why their faces had the spark of red and blue. Why were they not human-looking?  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Straight after I woke up

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No difficulty

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difficulty

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Before I went into the tunnel the two entities called me and I woke up.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I just felt like my grandfather, who had died 2 years ago, was watching me.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When the white, bright light came through the roof and walls, for a split moment, I saw through the light a field with a house and trees.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I had entered into a different world.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happy and peaceful. I wanted to go with them. I was free of pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Yes, I feel like a stranger to this world and wished I could go through the tunnel. When the two entities appeared I did not want to go back to this world.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I was moving towards the tunnel, it was such a beautiful feeling I did not try to stay in this world; the feeling was so good I wanted to move forward into the tunnel. Then the two entities appeared from the lift. My heart beat at normal is 60, but after I woke up it was 54.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My beliefs are stronger.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Living in this world and then dying and going to another world were things that were the same as my experience at the time of this incident and before, but the appearance of those creatures was not like what I imagined.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to be kinder to people, help people and be more religious.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The entities that were white and human-like but all light: no clothes just light. Their faces were round lights. They spoke to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt I had to prepare for a new life across the tunnel, which is much more lovable than living with the hardships of this world.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The very creatures that came to take me to that land were very strange, spiritual and trustworthy

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I became aware that what was written in the Koran was correct. This world is full of hardship and difficulty but one day we will die and go to another world where there is no pain and suffering. It was interesting for me to understand the reason why God said in the Koran that everyone must die. Now I know why. It is their right to die as it is a better world.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I realized that Anwar Tunnel's life and life in this world are similar to the descriptions given in the Qur'an

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists         At first, when the light broke through the wall and he wanted to enter the room, I stared at it with great curiosity, and for a brief moment I saw a land hole like a flax garden with houses in the middle, but the light was high and only for a short moment.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain info وrmation about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?  Yes     بIn particular, no, but I felt that there was no news of the hardships in the world across the tunnel

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The behavior of those creatures was so good that I felt they were trustworthy people

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. Now that 15 hours have passed from this experience, the stresses that I had in my life before are no longer and any cold I had is gone. I am much happier and have more energy.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I try, in society, to be a better person.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That there is life after death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only from internet sites

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When the two entities appeared they said to each other ‘he is breathing again’. Then I woke up and I felt like someone was holding my breath for a few seconds. It was like people drowning in water, it took me a few seconds to breathe.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same answer I said before.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When the white light was breaking through the room, I was looking intently and saw the field with homes. But the light was so bright I only saw them for a split second. The entities that had come to take me were very different, they were religious entities and trustworthy.  I felt that I had to be ready for the new life after the tunnel, and that it did not have any of the problems of this world.  I just felt that on the other side of the tunnel, there were no worries like this world has. The entities were very good and full of love, thus, I felt like I could trust them. Life on this earth and after you die is what I expected, but the entities I saw were not what I imagined.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1muhammad_e_possible_nde.html