{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mori_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Mori C NDE 847","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mori C NDE 847  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mori C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						337  Mori C NDE  847  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On the operating table, I came out of my body. I went for a walk and I saw a whirlwind of white light.  Then, I am between a border separating the world here from the celestial or astral. I entered in a light that illuminated this experience.  It was brilliant and beautiful all along a white passageway. I saw a Jesus, very beautiful and serene.  He told me that it is too early for me to be here and showed me my child wrapped in gold.  He showed me my husband who was very sad in the room of hospital.  I chose to return to help people.  (I wrote a book that is due to be published shortly, to help people in the despair.)  At this moment, I was projected in my body with great speed.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    31 mai,2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     hemorrhage from ectopic pregnancy; grossese ectopique avec hémoragie interne  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Severe blood loss; perte de sang importante

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely good, better than when I’m awake... very vivid and real

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the noise of quiet, soft bells

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Whirlwind of white light

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I believe to have met Jesus.  He spoke to me and helped me to return.  He told me that my time was not finished and that I had to help people.  I could also see my dead child.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I felt the most wonderful feelings, so clear

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Yes, sense of well-being and love

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I felt an imposition but I didn't want to come back not at all here because it was so good to be there... but it was necessary to come back…

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I am closer to nature: plus croyante et plus pres de la nature

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     More in the joy of the present moment. I believe in god. I pray and am thankful to be here because God saved me. I believe in values of life, of love, of compassion.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   not of this world .. another level

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Clairvoyance. I have some dreams premonitions. I received the words that guided me in life (someone speaks to me).  I am now more intuitive. My life is special.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best:  peace and serenity.  Worse: to come back in this body so sick.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It is difficult because it just happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      A beautiful experience in my life one of the richest.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mori_c_nde.html