{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1morgan_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Morgan L NDE 2272","mylang":"de"}
          	        Morgan L NDE 2272  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Morgan L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						649  Morgan L NDE  2272  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was admitted into a hospital emergency room and informed that I was having a heart attack. I stayed in the emergency room for what seemed like days. All told, it was a total of eighteen hours in which doctors were fighting to keep me alive. I learned five years after this heart attack that I had died three times during that time period and was pronounced dead once. I was told by one doctor, directly following the ordeal that my heart nearly exploded.

The experience is very difficult to describe in that I did not know at the time what I had experienced. I knew that I was dying. I felt that immediately, I knew what was happening, and there was one point where I was removed from the pain and I later realized that I was being held by someone and consoled. After the heart attack and for months later I kept getting bits and pieces of that night as in flashbacks and visions. There were times during the last eight years that I became psychic and able to foretell when bad things would happen or when someone was going to be involved in a life taking event. I had feelings of great knowledge at times and of being able to transport myself, seemingly by telepathic means, across divides of space and time. There are many more things that the space in this website does not have room for.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 13, 1997  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   For months after the experience it seemed that my brain did not want to slow down. It seemed to be working at super warp speed.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This is difficult to say. I would guess that it was sometime during the eighth or ninth hour of struggle.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I had a sense of altered space and time. In fact, to this day I have trouble coping with time and time does not seem to matter to me which is very strange because before my heart attack I was not like that.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Emotions were high and I went through emotions that I didn't even remember having. I felt it was an emotional roller coaster.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had many psychic experiences since my heart attack and feel that on several occasions that I knew that someone was going to have a tragic accident and it later proved true. There is one time, with my sister-in-law that she claims that I saved her life by calling her and telling her to be careful and drive carefully.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I exited from the emergency room an extreme believer in God. It felt as though Jesus himself was in the emergency room consoling me and holding me. The only thing was that I was in spirit form. It seemed that there were two emergency crews on duty, the physical world and the spiritual world. I was removed from the physical and comforted until the time that all danger had passed and I was kept from the pain until the pain had passed.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that I had been held by Jesus immediately after waking up. I knew of my experience but did not know what to call it and did not want to talk about it. It's been eight years and I am only now opening up to my wife and telling her of what happened in that emergency room.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view my experience as real and know that it is real because I know what happened, I went through it. I did not reveal my experience to anyone because I did not want to be labeled as a psycho and I did not need anyone's opinion on the matter, the mere fact that I know and believe is enough for me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't know if there is anything to add. I am trying to write a book on the experience and looking for others who may want to include their information or accounting of their experience in this book.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't know of anything that could improve the questionnaire except perhaps include an area for an essay on the experience. Sometimes these experiences are too much to write about in one sitting.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1morgan_l_nde.html