{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mosher_c.html","mytitle":"Mosher C NDE 708","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mosher C NDE 708  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mosher C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						237  Mosher C NDE  708  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was three weeks overdue for my baby and given one cubic centimeter of a drug - which did not work in inducing labor. The next day they upped it to one and a half cubic centimeters and within ten minutes, I was in terrible labor. I was rushed to the emergency room and from then on, all I can recall is as follows:


Rushing down (or up) a passageway of sound and lights finally coming to the end of the passage, to the light, where I was met by three beautiful people who informed me that they had come to help me over. Behind them, I could see great beauty, glorious flowers and green pastures. I replied that I could not go in there. They smiled and said that everybody came there - to which I replied, even me? If that is the case, I must go back and tell everyone! To which they smiled and said but no one will believe you. My answer was, 'Oh yes they will.'


My husband was an air force officer so I got lucky (!) and a bishop came to visit me. I told him of my experience and to my utter amazement, all he did was smile and tell me that I had been under drugs and this was all imagination. After that, I gave up trying to tell people - so you see my wonderful friends in white were right, they did not believe me.  Nowadays it is different; people are more ready to listen.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 23, 1957

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth     My uterus would not contract and I was bleeding heavily so much so that when I was in recovering the nurses told me they thought that they had lost me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt that I had become part of the universe for as I was traveling the passage to the light I learned many things.  Which, of course, I have forgotten.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A sort of yunk, yung, yung sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Psychedelic lights (spell).

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     This I have already explained. I did not know them and the communication was telepathic.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw many different colored lights.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Beauty, peace and love.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Only what I have previously described.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt I had to return to tell people what I knew and what I had seen.  Emotionally I was elated.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in humanity was much stronger.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   No one would believe me, not even an Anglican bishop who visited me whilst I was in hospital.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It was all a very wonderful experience - I wanted to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most scoffed - save my husband, but even he said not to tell people for they would think me mad.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, I think it is well covered.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mosher_c.html