{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1morris_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Morris M Probable NDE 5038","mylang":"de"}
          	        Morris M Probable NDE 5038  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Morris M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2609 Morris M Probable NDE 5038  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was going to the hospital for a tonsillectomy when I started to endure stomach cramping and pain. Upon arrival, I was in full-blown pain. After being admitted, I was under close observation for the night when the pain became too severe. Granted nobody thought I was having an appendicitis attack at that point. At around 2:00 am my mother grabbed a doctor from the hall due to my wailing in pain. The doctored examined me then, may have, accidentally ruptured my appendix. From there I was immediately rushed to the operating room. Within minutes, I was put under general anesthesia, which was when I had my out of body experience.

I was up in corner of the room looking down a tunnel, grayish or white in color and cloudy, at my body and the doctor who was prepping me. I could see the blue garments that were over my body and the area above my appendix exposed. I could see him putting iodine on me in a circular motion directly over the appendix area. I could see him turn a glance upward towards my head then the next thing I was back in my body. Then I was lying there back in my body and could see, hear and feel the doctors (two of them) slapping me in the face to wake me up. I was yelling at them that I was awake and that they didn't need to hit me anymore. Later the doctors said I never came too and did not say anything to them. That was it.

The feeling I had was very peaceful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related    Other 'General anesthesia, appendectomy rupture'  Ruptured appendix and surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Looking down at the doctor putting iodine on me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Looking down at the doctor putting iodine on me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Seemed to go very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seemed as though I was viewing from a distance yet I could see everything just fine. One thing to note is that my vision was 375/400 at the time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember any sound during OBE. Just when they were awaking me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was definitely in a tunnel but not looking up just down. The time in the tunnel seemed very short.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The tunneling was grayish to white which would indicate some type of light source behind me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Non practicing

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As listed above, I believe this event is what made me a practicing Catholic today.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As listed above, I believe this event is what made me a practicing Catholic today.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Definitely driven towards learning and understanding more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Prior to this I was not very religious at all. But after this, I was blessed by the Pope on Christmas Eve at the Vatican (which I was not Catholic at the time and was still not a practicing follower). Approximately four years later I became Catholic and have been a practicing follower ever since.  Another thing to note: I was not very gifted school wise. I made D's to C's while in school but following this I managed not only to improve my grades but now hold four degrees of which one is a PhD. I credit this experience with setting this course.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I definitely know that there is something after death. It clearly aligns with my faith.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife. I tried my parents long ago but they only brushed it aside. Not until now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     All I can say is at it was real. As real as I am writing this now. I was totally curious in what took place.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     To still be able to recall with such detail what I experienced after twenty-seven years only demonstrates how much it impacted me. All I can say is that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I saw you on the TV morning news show and decided to read your book. It is very fulfilling and provides credence to what I experienced as a young man. I do believe that God is telling me something here. I can only imagine what it may be.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1morris_m_probable_nde.html