{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mouse_nde.html","mytitle":"Mouse NDE 3498","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mouse NDE 3498  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mouse NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1556 Mouse NDE 3498  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was doing a tilt table test to see how my heart would react. [A tilt table test is a medical procedure used to diagnose patients with symptoms of dizziness that involves having the patient lie flat on a special table while connected to blood pressure monitors. The table is then tilted, creating a change in the patient's posture from lying to standing]. I started to feel out of breath and dizzy - nothing new for my condition, when all went calm. Next, I was gliding over an aspen grove where I grew up and over a lake my father and often fished when I was a kid. Then I came to a cave in a mountain, which had a boulder half covering the entrance. The light coming out of the cave was so bright. There was a person standing in front of the stone. I could not see who it was but he filled me with love. I did not want to leave. I could hear someone saying, 'Breathe, you need to breathe.' The person in front of the stone told me it was not the right time for me to come home. I wanted to stay in the calm. The person said, 'You have to back, it is not your time.' When I woke up, the medical team told me I had been 'unresponsive'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/14/2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    heart condition  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   My heart rate had reached 240 beats per minute [a healthy resting heart rate sits between 60 and 100 beats per minute] and my oxygen saturation [which measures the amount of oxygen in the blood and sits between 96 and 99% in healthy patients] went down to 70%.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unresponsive, unconscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more colorful and bright.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Another human that looked like a man I should have known.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   [See above narrative]

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     visted the colorado mountains in fall time

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I make sure I talk to god every day.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I make sure I talk to god every day.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I want everyone I love to know. I have started up life insurance and looking at things as if I had died: what would have happened to my familyà  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   1.The feeling of not being cold and not being warm, but just comfortable.   2.The person in front of the stone - it was like I knew them but yet did not know them. It was as if the light from behind him was so bright you could not make out whom he was.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mother. Her reaction was: understanding.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what you see on TV. This was nothing like they show on TV.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mouse_nde.html