{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1morris_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Morris C NDE 9634","mylang":"de"}
          	        Morris C NDE 9634  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Morris C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5199 Morris C NDE 9634  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I was lying on my couch with all lights and the television off. All of a sudden, I felt a tremendous pressure in my head. The pressure felt so intense that I could hear myself screaming 'I'm having and aneurysm!', but words couldn't come out of my mouth. Then, I heard a calm and soothing voice telling me 'this is how it feels to die.'  The pressure started from deep down in my body but it was moving up higher and higher towards my head.  The pressure then popped like a balloon and I saw a bright flash like a camera going off. 

  I was floating over myself, as I recognized my body lying on the couch. I went to check on my girlfriend and children. I saw them in the room playing, but they did not see me. This OBE lasted for maybe 20 seconds. I woke up and was freaked out! 

  Right after this experience, I started getting major, pressure headaches. The optometrist diagnosed me with glaucoma. Still these headaches wouldn't go away. Then The neurologist diagnosed me with trigeminal neuralgia, explaining that this happens with head trauma. 

    From my experience, I've been taught otherworldly knowledge. I can see auras and  developed some psychic capability. I know things that maybe shouldn't know.  I have visions and dream that teach me things. In one dream, spiritual entities told me the day my dad was gonna die. I experience deja vu where I feel like some conversations I've had before. I can finish the sentences of things people tell me. It's like life's a replay. I've learned about microtubles in my dreams. And now I'm going through the dark night of the soul. This all goes back to my NDE and has something to do with the light I saw.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09/17/2017  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Aneurysm  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  A voice told me 'This is how it feels to die.'  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I saw very different colors.   
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before and right after  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time wasn't a factor  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was great before this. I have medical records to prove it. I've not developed glaucoma or cataracts  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing is around the same  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was everything!!!! The beginning, middle and end. The light was everything! Love and peace, just everything that can ever be. It was like an old camera with the flash bulbs. Just right in my eyes  
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When it first was happening I was terrified,  then the feelings  went to euphoria  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     The light showed me everything at once  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Baptist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual  

What is your religion now?       No comment     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My whole perspective of this world has changed.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   The voice told me 'This is how it feels to die.' The voice could've been Male or Female.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     When I saw my body lying down, it was like I didn't care. It was as significant as  taking off my coat and lying it down  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The light and the voice confirmed that.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything, everything was me  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life’s difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The light was love!  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have alot of visions. I see and feel auras and became more spiritual. Developed a brain condition.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Lost an 18 year relationship over this experience. I don't want to hangout too much  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience. September 17, 2017 changed my life forever  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have dreams and visions. Have strong premonitions. I know things and learned through otherworldly entities  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes the light! 

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited 6 years before I shared anything. Most reactions are shocked. Some people actually understand.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The experience was life changing  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All real. Definitely real. I seen it and witnessed it  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1morris_c_nde.html