{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mother_in_law_nde.html","mytitle":"Mother-in-Law NDE 3109","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mother-in-Law NDE 3109  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mother-in-Law NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  						1462 Mother-in-Law NDE 3109  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My name is George and I narrate the experience of my mother-in-law, whom I didn't know. My wife related the experience to me. I was particularly interested in NDE's, and on one occasion when I spoke with my wife on this theme, she relayed this experience of her mother. For me, the telling was truly stimulating because it provided direct evidence that the NDE experiences correspond to the transit time from one form of existence to another.

My mother-in-law's pregnancy was the same as with the fourth child. Everything was normal, up until the delivery, during which a midwife tended to her. [Midwives] in Mexico are women who have learned through experience to attend deliveries; they're not doctors. The day of the delivery, the midwife attended my mother-in-law in her house; the baby was born - it was a girl.

Hours later, my mother-in-law experienced a strong hemorrhaging connected to the delivery. At some point, my mother-in-law started to see a path strewn with flowers and light. At the end of the path, she saw an elderly lady. My mother-in-law reached the elderly lady, who told her to go back; that she should see her family who were suffering for her.

The elderly lady showed my mother-in-law her husband and her small children around the bed and other persons. All were crying and praying for my mother-in-law; for they thought she was dying. My mother-in-law saw herself stretched out on the bed; she knew it was she (there). In that moment, she became conscious that she was out of her body. The answer of my mother-in-law to the elderly lady was that she wanted to go with her, because she felt such peace and tranquility. The elderly lady again told her that, no, she had to go back. My mother-in-law awoke in the bed and recuperated.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  aproximadamente hace 68 años

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   The situation was related to a delivery with complications due to a hemorrhage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As the experience was my mother-in-law's, I felt that the moment of highest consciousness was when she perceived that there existed the possibility to pass on to the other form of existence or to the other world, a world of happiness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The experience of my mother-in-law took place in a beautiful landscape, with a pathway, flowers, lawn and light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't have information with which to answer that question.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't have information with respect to that.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A very large person of the feminine sex, who told her that she had to return and showed her children, husband and other persons around her bed, crying and praying.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The path of flowers she saw was very well lit. However, when the path appeared she didn't see a point of light or any localized light [on it].

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Si la experiencia de mi suegra se dearrollo en un paisaje bello, con un camino, flores, cesped y luz.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       My mother-in-law saw her body stretched out on the bed and she realized that she existed outside of it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The limit of the pathway that my mother-in-law traversed was marked by the presence of the elderly lady, the one who prevented her from going forward.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mother_in_law_nde.html