{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1monique_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Monique F NDE 4694  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tPassed out from not being able to breathe.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Monique F NDE 4694  		  		  		  		  		Passed out from not being able to breathe.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Monique F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2376 Monique F NDE 4694  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had to be fighting a cold or whatever it was. I wasn't sure but I knew I was sick. I had a fever, stuffy, runny nose, sneezing, coughing, sore throat, the works. I had been congested, and it was making me have asthma attacks constantly. I even used up all of my inhaler and everything. So about 4:00 am rolls around. I can't breathe, so I try my nebulizer. It made it worse, the worse it has ever been. Nothing was working. So, I stagger to my mom's room and tell her that I need to go to the hospital. She gets up, and I'm sitting on her bed panting like a dog, my body feels like its swelling up with heat and my veins are popping out of my body. I'm sweating like mad and I felt like a hot air balloon. Then my mom helps me with my coat, get to the door, and into the car. I'm falling down while I'm walking for lack of air. She scrapes the windows off. I'm still just barely breathing. She gets in and tries to start the car. Of course, it didn't work.

Then all the sudden, I can't see anything, everything just goes black. My eyes are wide open too, so of course, I tell mom and she's telling me to calm down, and not to talk. I start to see something that scares me; I see this skull, it's turning towards me, opening its mouth, its eyes are popping out and bulging like it was almost like a screen saver. There was a checkered psychedelic background behind it, and I thought I was seeing the grim reaper. Truly.

Then it disappeared (I heard later from my mom that I had passed out, and was barely breathing) and I saw my whole life flash before my eyes like pictures in a spinning wheel from left to right it was so fast, starting from the present going back to the past. I kept seeing Jason's (my boyfriend) face, and I was saying his name. Later mom told me I was screaming his name at the top of my lungs several times. Then I stopped breathing, my eyes rolled up in my head and she gave me CPR. Then it disappeared, and I saw what I believe was God's outline, with a bright light behind him. I truly believe I saw him, I asked him not to take me repeatedly, and that I was going to do better with my life if he would give me another chance.

After I said that, I could see again. I was so disoriented. I saw a man standing in front of me. I was apparently muttering things, and mom was trying to get me to focus. I don't know when this part happened, but I saw this star in the sky, and it got closer and closer and brighter and brighter. Finally, I sat up.  The ambulance arrived and I went to the hospital. I hardly remember any of it, but I remember trying to grab the emergency medical technician's jacket, and telling them thank you, and then they whisked me to the emergency room. They took my blood a bunch of times; they did many tests to figure out what was wrong, so eventually they told me I had to stay until the next day. They transported me to my room and all that, gave me a bunch of medications throughout the day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December  29, 2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  'I've had asthma all my life, Christmas day I became sick with a lung infection contracted from my boyfriend's brother.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Well I had a bad lung infection and I've suffered with asthma for several years, the two together nearly killed me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I started seeing my life pass before my eyes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I started seeing my life pass before my eyes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed to stop when I was in God's presence.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was so bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear better very clearly and it seemed like to me God and I were communicating almost telepathically.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I believe I was in the presence of God himself, his outline.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity, peacefulness, and fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I kept seeing my boyfriend's face, and all my sins. I realized that I needed to try harder in our relationship, and that I was meant to be with him, and that I needed to start doing better with my life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I've always had a very firm belief in God.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've tried to be more spiritual then I ever have before.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Still do, even more so.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've tried to be more spiritual then I ever have before.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Sort of because I found things I saw hard to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I seem to be able to predict things more often, but not very significant things. I see things in the corner of my eyes more often, and I have strange vivid dreams of my body floating and I can never tell if they are real or not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my life pass before my eyes, and speaking with God. It just put everything in perspective for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it when I arrived at the hospital with my family and boyfriend the next day over the internet and weeks later with another friend. Some didn't believe me, some did and thought it was strange, and others were completely content with it. Mostly everyone told me that they were glad I wasn't dead.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about it and seen shows about it, but that didn't effect what happened to me. I believe everyone has a different experience, but they are all similar.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel it was very real, and it happened for a reason, to get me going in my life. That night when I went to sleep in the hospital I slept with the oxygen mask on for fear of going through it again when I wasn't ready. Afterward I was still very content with it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was all real and I still do.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would have went if I were ready, but I'm so young and there is so much I hadn't done in my life, I was also concerned about my boyfriend the whole time because I'm all he really has. We've been together for six years.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1monique_f_nde.html