{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1morgan_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Morgan A NDE 5253","mylang":"de"}
          	        Morgan A NDE 5253  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Morgan A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2748 Morgan A NDE 5253  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been going through some hard times financially, and at that time, I was just about to lose my home. My electricity was cut off for non-payment. Here in Alaska, that is not good in the winter months. I had borrowed a generator to provide electricity for the house. It would power my oil stove in order to heat the house. I really was broke, more than just financially, as my faith was crumbling with all the unfortunate events that kept recurring. My friend and I placed the generator in the garage, which was attached to the house. We started the generator and then went into the house. We didn't know it, but fumes were coming into the house, and our minds went into a partial blackout. We were not thinking clearly.

Well, sometime near morning, I got up, not feeling well, and stumbled to the bathroom, where I blacked out and fell to the floor. For some reason, my friend Neal had woken up and had come to check on me. (Everyone was concerned about me, because of all the unfortunate events that were happening in my life.) He had realized about the fumes in the house and went looking for me when he found I wasn't in the bedroom. He found me in a puddle of blood where I had fallen onto the bathroom floor. He tried to move me but couldn't, so he grabbed his cell phone and called for help.

This story has a lot more to it, but I can't type with much accuracy (the spelling is a particular problem) so I hope that you will call me, and I will fill in the missing parts. Anyway, I left my body during this experience, and I found myself with my dog Tramp, who had just passed away a month before. I wouldn't be here now if it hadn't been for Tramp - that dog is the closest thing to me in the whole world. Tramp had saved my life before, and here he was, doing it again - even after he was dead. You will have to call me for the rest, as I cry too hard when I think about it. Just believe me when I say that it was my dog Tramp who saved my life - not the paramedics that came to the house.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I nearly died of carbon monoxide poisoning. I was hospitalized.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From right before those shock paddles were applied to me and all while they were using them.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew right away when I was coming to, that my life had changed. I had been having a hard time making up my mind whether I wanted to stay or to go. Only my values kept me here. I knew I had a purpose.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm having trouble putting this into words.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything I heard had a gurgling sound to it, like water flowing somewhere above my head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I can't explain, I need help putting this on paper.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dog Tramp and some voices, like, trying to talk with him.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A shocking, bright intense and cold, non-alive feeling light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I need help convaying my feeling at time of incedent. I would love to go back.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Later - sadness, immense sorrow, when I was wishing I could go back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was real, and I'm certain that I will be with Tramp and Lady Girl, who was also kind of there, in the presence of the light that surrounded us.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I'm sure that there is a God in Heaven, that we are not alone, and that our pets go with us up into that world - that place where I had found myself and remained aware of for a while. I would stand on a stack of Bibles and swear that this is true.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I believed in God before.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I believed in God before.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As it is, I have problems with my health. I've been on so many medications - and they are not good medications - but they keep me alive. As I learn more about why I'm here, I pray that I can play a part in my kids' lives. I won't miss this world when I go, though, because every now and then parts of that time go through my head, and they make sense. It's my job now to teach about faith in God, and how we are part of something so much bigger. When you go, it won't matter if you're rich or poor. The only thing that will matter is - well, this will become clear when the time comes. I was never afraid. When I was there, I had a very calming feeling, even though you'd think I'd be in pain from my fall and the loss of blood.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Well, kind of, in a way, because everything here is temporary; and I'm not sure what the 'other' is, but it felt good.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     This gives me more understanding and awareness of karma and how it relates to us in general.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Tramp! How can I tell you! I felt him against my skin, could smell him with my nose. He was THERE with me, protecting me the whole time!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    From that time until now, I have always known that this experience was real. If people want to hear about it, I'll tell them. This is my way of keeping God's word alive. And at least there are some people who do like to hear about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   That is a whole other story. Something happened forty years ago, and it makes sense now.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It only gets clearer with time. If you go through this, then you just know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still know that the experience was 'definitely real.' I'm not feeling any guilt about what I've said. I'm not worrying about what others think - I'm so satisfied, just knowing that Tramp will be there for me when my time comes.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That when I do pass on, it will be okay, and I know that even if it's a painful death, that too passes. What's important is to know that your karma will bite you in the ass if you have it coming!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'm normally someone who doesn't try to talk about my feelings by writing them down on paper.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1morgan_a_nde.html