{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1monique_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Monique B NDE 7193","mylang":"de"}
          	        Monique B NDE 7193  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Monique B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3647 Monique B NDE 7193  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In July 1977, I was 33 years old, I was at the beach in Porquerolles, and the water was 26° Celsius. I was not feeling very good, I came out of the water. After a few steps on the beach, I went into anaphylactic shock, due to an allergy to the cold, followed by three cardiac arrests. 

At the third arrest, I 'left' and found myself being in a landscape, ‘David Hamilton-type’, rosy, golden, soft, pleasant and I was walking on clouds. A situation so very comfortable that I remember thinking, ‘If this is being dead, it's really good.’ I continued to advance on the clouds in this cozy setting; to my surprise, after about some moments, I met a white bright silhouette, an angel or the blessed virgin (?), who ‘talked’ to me saying ‘you have to return, your son (of 7 years at that time) needs you.’ 

As soon as the sentence was said, I found myself awake at the beach. A gentleman, with fashionable long hair and a beard, held me in his arms, and me lying on my side.  I held my hand towards his face and said to him ‘So you are Jesus?’ ‘No I'm Jean-Michel, I'm a nurse.  We are waiting for the doctor and police to transport you to the doctors’ offices!’  This is what happened. For many years, I didn't dare to speak about this to anybody. Then I was searching for books about this topic, like Dr. Moody and many others, in order to understand if I was dreaming, or if I was off the mark. 

I was full of questions, then one day at my sister-in-law’s house, I saw the same books that I had been reading and for which I was looking. I told her what happened to me and she listened to me without laughing. This cheered me up. 

Since then I'm reading everything pertaining to NDE's and I know that one does not have to fear death; even if sometimes I tell myself that it is a pity to ‘leave’. What is also good is that you can tell yourself that you are not the only one having had this experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  07/1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Anaphylactic shock

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of everything surrounding me, but it was amplified in comparison to my everyday life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Almost immediately

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sight was 360°

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was hearing everything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was an unusual light, a sensation of unusual lightness, the impression to walk on clouds (it was so pleasant that I said to myself, ‘if it is like this being dead, it is really good).

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, joy, softness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't make the decision, I was told to go back, that it was not the right moment.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More confidence

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have more tolerance and certitude concerning prayer.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Vu, ressenti

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Amour immense presque indescriptible.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. Since my experience, I don't fear death anymore.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have more efficient prayers, being in contact with my guardian angel.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I understood that there is an afterlife and that there are spiritual beings protecting us, who are full of love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my family and some friends, after about 8 years, there was understanding; my sister-in-law, who is following a spiritual path.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I considered this experience as being perfectly real, due to the fact that I wasn't dead and because I heard this 'person' telling me to go back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The more this is progressing the more I'm aware that it is in existence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1monique_b_nde.html