{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1morena_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Morena B NDE 6834","mylang":"de"}
          	        Morena B NDE 6834  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Morena B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3433 Morena B NDE 6834  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was twelve years old. I had gone with my parents and siblings to spend the weekend at a tourist resort. I went to the swimming pool. As I did not know how to swim, I was using a rubber tire as a lifesaver.

All of a sudden, I went out of the tire and sank to the bottom of the pool. At the beginning, I got worried.  But then I felt tranquil. I saw all my life as if in a quick movie. Later, I saw a tunnel where there were lovely beings and I started to cross it. At the rear, I was seeing a light. I knew something good was there. I felt peace, tranquility, and happiness.

In that moment, I arrived at the bottom of the pool and pushed myself upwards. I was feeling the tiredness from not being able to breath and water had gotten into my lungs. I was able to come to the surface and breathe. At the end, a child helped me to get out of the pool. Half drowned, I got well quickly.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was drowning at the swimming pool.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment of having the experience I did not feel I was at the pool. It was as if I was on the other side, without pain. There was only tranquility.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt that some seconds were passing too slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was normal.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw a tunnel and I was traversing it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt from them great kindness. I could not confirm if there was a family member.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tunnel there was a big light and I wanted to go toward it. I felt that something good was there.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Tranquility and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Inconsistente

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I saw beings that seemed pleasant to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Le precibí a través del amor y tranquilidad que sentí.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Después de la experiencia sentí que había algo más después de la muerte y ya no le tenía tanto miedo, porque sabía que no era tan terrible como creía.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     From this experience I have had many others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard because of the age I had.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Fue una experiencia que me impactó. Al principio creí que era algo normal. Me di cuenta que no lo era cuando vi un programa en la TV sobre personas que habían tenido experiencias de ese tipo.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This awakened a big curiosity to know about this theme. I was also afraid of the unknown before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many years after. I was afraid that they would say I was crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I dream about things that happen later. I had many experiences of coming out of the body. I saw beings around me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1morena_b_nde.html