{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1monik_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Monik J NDE 1114","mylang":"de"}
          	        Monik J NDE 1114  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Monik J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						635  Monik J NDE  1114  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I experienced an NDE due complications during surgery.  An artery burst when the surgeon tried to remove an organ, causing a hemorrhage that filled the stomach and I went into cardiac arrest. I was clinically dead for 8 minutes.  They put me on an artificial respirator, drained my lungs and stomach. Then I was saved and returned to life.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October  72

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had the impression of I had died.  But I became aware of my inert body on a table covered with cloth. I had difficulty recognizing myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was under anesthesia and dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A noise that sounded like a broken motor coming in the direction of the anesthesiologist.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I don't know if I would call it a tunnel.  It was dark and then there was a light.  It was quick when I saw the place as in black and white.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I don't remember.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a steamy white light, and could I see everywhere.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The only thing that I remember is that I had never been afraid of the place that I went to.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I don't remember.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I don't remember much.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   agnostique

What is your religion now?      Liberal   croyances personnelles

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know that there is no death but just a metamorphosis of the body.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Since my experience, I can feel that something is about to happen. I communicate with the other side, I get warnings about things that might be tragic or disrupt me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       At first I felt lost because I didn't know it was me or what had happened during the surgery, but I didn't feel in danger and I did feel that I am detached myself quickly of my body that was suffering.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some are skeptical of this experience.  I also asked my daughter, who is a medium, and she believed this without judging it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   During a visit at my??, I felt to faint as hearing murmurs himself who brought me back from clinical death.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      From this experience I understand that death is not death.  I am not afraid of death anymore.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Ask if the experiencer has had any other experiences such as astral travel, or if there is something that makes it possible to repeat the NDE by opening a physical vortex at my person and in my house.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1monik_j_nde.html