{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1monique_nde.html","mytitle":"Monique NDE 7016","mylang":"de"}
          	        Monique NDE 7016  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Monique NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3539 Monique NDE 7016  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Upon trying suicide in November 2000, I jumped from a building of 30 meters (98 feet 5 inches). Coming out of the 'light', a paradisiacal landscape opened up before me.  At first, its little wooden bridge, where a river was flowing underneath, and opposite at the left, in a mountain landscape, was a magnificent rainbow where the light was even 'stronger and warmer and more filled with love' and where I KNEW that I would enter and be happy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  27 novembre 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Othe:r   A fall of 30 meters.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   To describe it is difficult, all was sharp, sure and it was no dream! I knew that I was dead and it was normal, like a 'return to the sources'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At maximum

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No notion of time at all!!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sharp, clear and perfect.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Deceased members of my family awaited me at the other side of the 'BRIDGE'.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   First a little white dot, that was growing very fast, glowing stronger and stronger, (of an intensity unknown on earth, but not hurting, not dazzling) to take me into its warmth, its love and take me along.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Coming out of the 'light', a paradisiacal landscape opened up before me: with, at first, its little wooden bridge, where a river was flowing underneath. Opposite, at the left, in a mountain landscape, was a magnificent rainbow where the light was even 'stronger and warmer and more filled with love', where I KNEW that I would enter and be happy.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a very vivid emotion of happiness and total plenitude!! It was an ecstasy of love. FINALLY, I was loved, really loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes, I was part of the Universe and was returning to the sources!

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A little wooden bridge; the child that picked me up passed first, and when I wanted to set my foot on it I 'heard' my children YELLING: ‘MAMA!!’

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As above  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I see religion another way: I'll rather act than to go to mass.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Question difficile à répondre ou mal formulée : je vous l'ai dit je suis croyante  mais en arrivant là haut je n'ai rien vu de ce que nous parle les évangiles. Je sais et suis SURE ET CERTAINE qu il y a un ETRE SUPREME qui était là et qui m'aimait, mais rien à voir avec ce que j'ai appris au cathéchisme ! je pense que si j'avais été athée ça se serait produit pareil !!!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in a God who loves us more than everything else and who is asking us to love others, but I don't know his Name!!! Moreover, I rather think it is a ‘woman’, as his love is as strong as the love of a mother for her child.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A child (that I didn't know) came to pick me up for the crossing.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Idem ! Je peux vous dire qu'un être SUPREME existe et qu'i n'est qu'AMOUR et qu'il nous aime tous mais dire son nom, je ne le peux pas ; pourtant Je suis catholique mais ma vision à quelque peu changé là dessus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I have the capacity to better 'feel' people.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Je pense que le seul sens est l' AMOUR §§§

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     je vous réponds oui mais ne peux pas vous l'expliquer ! simplement que je SAIS c'est tout .

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     On est tous égaux et l'amour est le seul but

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I'm now a volunteer with very poor people.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I listen more to others, and I'm no longer scared about the future; I live from day to day trying to be as nice as possible, and it's not always that simple.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Completely, as it is so strong that words to describe it are inadequate, and even trivial.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   C'est le souvenir de ma vie le plus précis et le plus sur !

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     On several occasions I 'saw' certain things or rather 'persons' but I have to admit, that it scares me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Often repeated: One must LOVE the others and help them. We are all equal and love is the only goal.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    5 years after the attempt, and I felt 'understood', whereas I was afraid to talk about it thinking they would consider me nuts!!!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Good question! It is difficult to explain but I knew that it was not a dream or a hallucination, and I'm still sure about it!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm still certain about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In response to whether there is continued existence after earthly life:  I answer yes, to you, but cannot explain it to you! Simply that I KNOW, that's all.  I can tell you that a Supreme Being is in existence and that He is nothing but LOVE, and that he loves us all. Telling you a name: this I cannot do; although I'm catholic, but my view upon this has changed somewhat. I am a believer, but arriving up there, I didn't see anything about what the gospel tells us. I know and am ABSOLUTELY SURE that there is a SUPREME BEING, who was there and did love me, but it had nothing to do about what I learned at catechism! I think, had I been an atheist, it would have happened the same way!!! It is the most accurate and certain memory of my life!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1monique_nde.html