{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mollie_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Mollie E NDE 200","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mollie E NDE 200  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Mollie E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						20117  Mollie E NDE  200  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had just miscarried with twins at about four months. I was operated on to clean the womb out. When I came out of the anesthetic, I was in terrible agony.


Something was pressing against something inside me and I was screaming in agony. I could not get anyone's attention.  Eventually, they came running and hooked up machines to monitor my vitals. The doctors and nurses finally started to operate on me on the bed in the ward. The pain was killing me.  I must have gone into shock, my blood pressure was zero, and pulse had stopped or was too weak to monitor. I found myself rising up out of my body.


I looked down and could see the doctors and nurses continuing to work on me on the bed.  I knew I was dead, and I could see the bright yellow light at the end of a tunnel. It felt absolutely wonderful, so peaceful, there was no pain, only joy and expectation. I recall looking at my body and thinking ‘I'm not going back into that awful low life thing’.  Just as I was going towards the light and leaving the hospital ceiling, a lovely woman's voice said ‘What about Julie?’ Julie was my four year old daughter and I had forgotten all about her in my quest to get to the light.


Then, it was like being shot through a gun, I was fired back into my body and then I passed out.  When I awoke some time later, the bed was almost vertical and I was standing on my head to get some blood pressure back into me.  I then spoke to the nurses and anyone who would listen and told them that I was dead and that I had returned. They just said that it was close and they seemed to be apologizing for the doctor and hoping they would not be sued.


Afterwards, I have never been scared of death and have had various strange experiences including an out of body experience which I have also written onto this web site.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 1978

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Clinical death A miscarriage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not think to look at myself in the air, but I had the feeling that I was a superior being to my human body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very high.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the voice of the woman saying ‘what about Julie?’

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Just the voice of the lady. I was wondering why no one had come to get me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A bright yellow light at the end of a grey tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Eyes were working as normal (except that you are above yourself).  Hearing is by thought patterns. There is no touching.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace and expectation.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that once you are dead to go to a higher level of consciousness.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I witnessed the doctors and nurses around the bed from above them and I could see the other patient in the next bed.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Both the voice of the lady and I decided that it was not my time to die and that one of my purposes on earth was to look after my daughter.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am a very spiritual person and want to find out more about near death experiences and the afterlife.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have had quite a few psychic experiences both before and after.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the feeling of peace and sheer joy and no pain, of course. The worst part, looking back, was the feeling that my own body was somehow ‘dirty’.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   An out of body experience some years later.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      A near death experience makes you appreciate both life and death more.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mollie_e_nde.html