{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1moises_nde.html","mytitle":"Moises NDE 5389","mylang":"de"}
          	        Moises NDE 5389  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Moises NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3010 Moises NDE 5389  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was riding a motorbike without any helmet on. I halted at a Stop sign and a car hit me (from behind). It was going fast and threw me 12 to 15 meters. I flew over the car and fell; hitting the ground with my head. Then I started to feel really cold, as if my skin had been ripped off. I began to float and got really scared when I looked at my hands but they weren't there and neither were my feet. As I was very cold, I got even more scared and I looked down and saw my body on the ground on its side with people saying that I had been killed. I heard and saw the people.  I also recognized them, as the accident was on my own street. So then I spoke to them from above, saying I was not dead, but they didn't hear me. I wasn't moving, my body did not move, though I was floating.

I tried to come back down to my body but I couldn't because something was pulling me upwards. The cold continued and a very intense and dazzling yellow light appeared, along with a strong wind, with a loud noise of wind. I started to enter this light-tunnel, but before going into it, I looked down and said (to the people there) that I was up above. I thought about my mother and my family before I entered the light and I could see a boy come running up and start to administer CPR to my body. I said to him I was up above already but he went on doing it without pausing. 

Then I entered the light and the cold went away from me, and so did the fear. I felt a great peace and love.  It was love and warmth. The light enveloped me completely. I was spoken to telepathically, receiving peace, love, tranquility and at the same time in a voiceless communication.  I was still a bit sad, thinking that I wanted to be with my family who loved me so much.  My family was still on earth, back home, waiting for me so we could eat together. Then suddenly the wind returned, the light went away, and I began to cough; back in my body. I could not see but I felt my fingers and arms and knew that I had come back into my body thanks to the boy who resuscitated me. I opened my eyes but it was some minutes before I could see. I got up then and fell over again, feeling dizzy. On the ground, I was conscious of everything, trembling with fear at having been outside my body, and I said, thinking of the light, 'Thank you for letting me come back to my family.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  año 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) parada cardio respiratoria por politraumatismo en accidente de moto  A motorcycle accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was being communicated with telepathically, without words, and I was a very intelligent being.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was being communicated with telepathically, without words, and I was a very intelligent being.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was aware of everything going on when I saw my body from above where I was floating.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light from the tunnel was yellow and dazzling.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything normally, the same now.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was of dazzling yellow light, windy, and very cold. When I got to the end of it, the light engulfed me completely and I found myself in the glorious brilliance of the end of the tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Just the light when I had travelled the length of the tunnel. I stopped in the brilliance of it and thought about my family. I was then taken back into the tunnel for the return journey.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It enveloped me until I ended up in the most dazzling part of it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     un tunel de luz y frio con ruido de viento fuerte

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very cold and I felt fear.  My thinking was very clear and I wanted to come back to my body but could not as I was floating.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Thinking of my family from the beginning, that I loved them, and then I kept on thinking about them inside the tunnel.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was spoken to telepathically.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't know, but I love to be part of a couple, hugging, kissing, loving, and living.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When I saw my body on the ground as I was floating in the air.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I don't think so.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was years before I could talk about it because I went through a lot of fear.  Some believed me, while others did not. The doctor told me that it was from the brain but I saw everything from outside my body.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Seeing everything from outside my body, I could hear and I felt the cold.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Certainly real; I felt everything, saw everything and felt it.  I tried to speak to those who were below but they neither saw me nor heard me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't know.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Don't use technical words or university language. Simple words are better.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1moises_nde.html