{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mm_gma_nde.html","mytitle":"MM Grandmother NDE 5210","mylang":"de"}
          	        MM Grandmother NDE 5210  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					MM Grandmother NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			2721 MM Grandmother NDE 5210  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is my grandmother's story, passed down to my mother, and then to me.

My grandmother gave birth to my mother in November 1934. They lived on an isolated farm, and so she gave birth at home. There were few neighbors and the local midwife attended.

Just after the birth, my grandmother became very ill with a postpartum infection. Her fever rose and there was little anyone could do about it. There was no such thing as antibiotics at that time. A physician was sent for, but by the time he got there, my grandmother was dead. Her heart stopped for a few minutes. A minister was sent for, along with a mortician, and the family was prepared.

During this time, my grandmother said that she found herself suddenly somewhere near the ceiling, looking down at all the people surrounding her bed. She saw the midwife's panic and her husband coming to her bedside, crying in despair. She also saw her two eldest daughters near the door, and then her mother pushing them into the next room.

My grandmother turned around then and saw a bright light in the distance, as if it was through the wall of the bedroom. Then her own grandmother appeared beside her and said 'Not yet.' Then she experienced just blackness. A few days later she emerged from a coma, and then was bedridden for weeks before she recovered.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 1934

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My grandmother had just given birth at home, but got an infection and was, according to the attending physician, clinically dead for a few minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure what her level of consciousness was. Probably normal.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My grandmother could see into the next room without any trouble.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not sure what she heard.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Her own grandmother came to stand beside her. She told her 'Not yet.'

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   She saw a bright light in the distance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She never said how she felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'My grandmother was a Lutheran, but not particularly religious.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     My grandmother never became a religious person, but she never feared death.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   My grandmother remained a Lutheran, but non-practicing.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     My grandmother never became a religious person, but she never feared death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   This is a story that was passed down to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    She shared this with her family. At that time people accepted the idea of a spiritual world.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   This was in 1934 and there was no talk of NDEs.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My grandmother definitely felt this was a real experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     She felt very strongly that this was a real experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Possibly that we can offer stories of NDE experiences that are not our own. They may not be as accurate, but interesting nonetheless.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mm_gma_nde.html