{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miranda_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Miranda G NDE 1008","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miranda G NDE 1008  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Miranda G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						439  Miranda G NDE  1008  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been in a rollover accident and was unresponsive to anything. I could hear everyone around me talking to me and telling me to pull through. Then I remember feeling a heavy weight on my chest and I could not breathe. Then the room got dark and I could not see anyone.


Then I felt as light as air and floating up to the top of the room and then it went black again. Then I could see doctors and nurses running into a room. I walked into the room and saw that they were trying to save someone who was coding. I did not think of anything at the time, that my brother was doing CPR because he is a medic. I saw that my dad and step-mom had a worried look on their faces and I tried to ask why but they did not hear me.


Then everything around me seemed to fade away. I felt like I was floating up to the ceiling of the room. At the top, I looked down and I saw my body being worked on. I knew why my dad and step-mom had a worried look on their faces and why my brother was doing CPR.


Everything then went into a fast-forward pace. I saw one of my other brothers crying over his brand new laptop. I saw my step-dad and another one of my brothers crying in the chapel of the hospital. Then I saw my aunt (who lives in another state!!!) crying at a desk and holding the cross from her necklace that she was wearing that night at work. Then everything around me went black. I could not see or hear anything. I did not know where I was. I felt lost and alone. I wanted to go back but something was pushing me through the blackness.


After what felt like a lifetime of blackness, I started to see a bright glowing light. A light so bright that it should have over-powered me but it did not. It was calming and peaceful and I was feeling love. The kind that you just can't know of. As it got closer to me, I started hearing music. I then saw prism-like lights coming to me and talking to me. Telling me that everything was going to be okay. When I got to the light, I saw my mom who had passed away in November of 2003. She told me that I had to go back. It was not my time. I still had things to do. I remember telling her that I did not want to go back; I wanted to stay with her there. She told me that I had to go back to my dad and the world of the living.


She and my grandfather (who passed away in June of 2003) and two others that I believe were my stepmother's aunt (who passed away in May of 2002) and a family friend of my stepmother's (who passed away in August 2003) made me lay down on my back and close my eyes. My mom said to just hear her voice as I kept my eyes close. As I did, I heard my mom's voice and music and saw light spots float up. As spots floated up, I was learning about things I didn't know before.


When I floated back into my body, I remember I was feeling pain in my right hip and left wrist from injuries from the accident. I also remembering hearing my dad's voice again and felt his hand-touching touch me.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1/8/2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death See main narrative.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw one of my brothers doing CPR on me in the room. I saw my other brother crying on his laptop. I saw my step-dad and my other brother crying in the chapel and I saw my aunt crying and holding the cross from her necklace and setting at a desk at her work talking on the net with my brother.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unresponsive during the code but aware and alert of the surroundings during my experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I thought I was only out for a few hours almost like I took a nap. I was out for almost three days.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just music.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A long black hallway like tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Prism like lights coming to me from the light. No I did not know the prism lights but they said I would be okay. My mom and the others had a light rainbow color to them.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I know how to do things that I did not know how to. Math was very hard for me to learn; now I can do all kinds of math. Biology was a hard class for me as well, now it's a snap for me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     It's been right on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware of the decision that I had to go back but I could not change it. I had to go back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   a basic catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   strong catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have different view of people now. I see them from the inside. Who they are on the inside.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Know what people are going to say before they say it. I have been able to know when things are going to happen before they happen. I knew that my step-mom was going to get pregnant a month before she did. I also knew she was going to have twins a month before she lost one of them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing my mom and grandfather and feeling all the love that you take with you. The worst part was having to come back and feeling all the pain from my injuries.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some think I am nuts. Others think it's great and would love to have what I have.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miranda_g_nde.html