{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1misericordia_ac_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Misericordia AC Probable NDE 4695","mylang":"de"}
          	        Misericordia AC Probable NDE 4695  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Misericordia AC Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2271 Misericordia AC Probable NDE 4695  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't know if I was awake or asleep, I believe I was awake. I saw a tunnel with a light, which drew me towards it. I could see myself in silhouette, going towards it. I saw Jesus, young and with a beard, as I have since seen him in the image of the Divine Mercy. He was saying, 'Come.' I saw some moments from my life, which caused me to feel repentance. I said to him, 'Not yet, give me more time to repent.' I heard, within myself, 'Everything you have confessed is already forgiven and forgotten.' Then I could hear my father's prayer for me, saying it was not yet time for me to die. Feeling a great peace and joy, I began to improve physically. I did not tell anyone for years afterwards, I do not know why.

Ten years ago, I told an older friend about it and she said that she had been through a similar thing, when she was in fear of a large wave. Now I tell my family about it and I feel this increases our mutual affection. One woman, who was not a believer, had an experience where she saw the light and people dressed in white. Among them were some of her relatives. This made me think of images from the Revelation of St John (concerning the Last Days). One man who was not religiously observant saw Jesus, who told him he would not die yet. He got better and went to Lourdes where he confessed and afterwards died in peace.

I want to talk about all this, to say that the passage from life to eternity is peaceful if we are reconciled to God, and that God loves us with a personal love. You may publish this account.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  31/12/1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    gravedad de toda la situación  Other 'Politraumatismo por accidente grave.11 días en coma médico.Esplenectomía,traqueotomía,fractura mandíbula y costillas.Un litro pus pulmón,infecciones.Un mes y medio en la Unidad Cuidados Intensivos.En planta 15 días.Viva de milagro.'  A very serious lung infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout. There was nothing strange about it, an affectionate conversation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was going towards something nearby and attractive. And I saw Jesus at the end.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard my father's voice, praying for me not to die. My mother had died in the accident and one sister was injured. Also see main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a white light, as when you open the shutters on the light of day.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I remembered two things which I felt repentant about. Jesus told me that I had already confessed and therefore I was forgiven. He was smiling. I see that everything which is in Holy Scripture is true and that now I am helping others to face death in peace.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'católica,del Opus Dei'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'católica,del Opus Dei'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After ten years. See the other question where this is mentioned.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I readjusted to my family life, convalescence, friendships and the return to my studies, without giving it much thought. I left the hospital with my eyes opened in wonder on life, and giving thanks to God for everything, despite what had happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see it as very real and it helps me to speak with people about seeing death in peace, and drawing near to God in the Sacraments.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1misericordia_ac_probable_nde.html