{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miriam_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Miriam P NDE 3846","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miriam P NDE 3846  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Miriam P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1840 Miriam P NDE 3846  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The surgery was scheduled for afternoon, they laid me on the operating table and the anesthesiologist gave me the anesthesia, I saw that other people entered the operating room I think they were nurses and nurses' aides. At that moment, I wasn't looking at the doctor. What I remember is being conscious and wanting to open my eyes and move my body because I heard the monitors going off and the doctor saying that they had lost me.

The doctor asked a woman if my husband was outside.  He told her to go speak with my husband. The aide asked, 'What's going on? The doctor said, 'Sew her up.' I wanted to scream and tell them that I was still here but I couldn't open my eyes. It seemed as though there were fractions of a second in which I saw scenes of my life with my family, my children, my husband and my work colleagues and I asked myself why, since there was so much more for me to do, when the most beautiful music surrounded me and I resigned myself to staying. Then I saw my twenty-year-old son leaning against a wall. My sister-in-law was asking him how my husband was doing. He answered, 'He's better now.' Then I realized that hours had passed. I heard my other son. He was walking and they had already told him about my death. I was sad thinking about the pain that my death was causing everybody and I said to myself that I needed to go back, it wasn't fair even if the peace and serenity that I was feeling was so wonderful and unexplainable.

I felt a pain in my chest.  It was starting up slowly until it built into a terrible pain. I said to myself, 'it doesn't matter if it hurts. I have to go back.' In that moment, it was as if the same movie that I had just seen began, started to go in reverse. I heard them tell the aide that I had returned and a moment later the nurse told me they were taking me to a hospital room. I believe I was conscious throughout the whole event and the most significant part is the cycle of life. The next day I asked the doctor what had happened and he simply said that I had not taken the anesthesia well.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  14 de noviembre del 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other INTERVENCION QUIRURGICA  (HISTERECTOMIA)  The truth is that I don't know. I heard the doctor say that he had lost me during the surgery, that they should disconnect me and the next day when I was in my hospital bed I asked if all that had actually happened and he didn't give me an adequate explanation except that something happened with the anesthesia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the doctor told the aide he had lost me, to disconnect me and sew me back up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though hours passed at the same time that it was only seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     SIMPLEMENTE  ME  ENVOLVIA  UNA MUSICA MUY HERMOSA

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt much resignation, peace, tranquility and sadness for my family.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Since I saw scenes with my children, my spouse and work colleagues and I understood that I could have done things differently, I knew that things could be better for everyone.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I felt the pain of my children and the sadness when I realized that a day had passed, it was a day after the surgery, and I knew that I had died, I no longer existed on earth.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   PRINCIPALMENTE FE  EN DIOS

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   CREER EN DIOS SOBRE TODAS LAS COSAS

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We all have our part to play, a mission and a special gift to help guide those who don't understand the process of life and death.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Interpersonal relations with my family and children and others has improved.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   At the moment when I quit trying to wake up that's when I saw that I had already died and it was as though hours passed during which they told my family they had lost me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I don't know how to describe it but I can know when someone wants to tell me something and what they want to say.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The strength to open my eyes and tell the doctor that I was alive, to not disconnect me from the monitors, and the inability to move.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The following day, in the morning I told my husband and he said that all he thought about during the surgery was that I shouldn't leave him alone with our kids.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because the more time passes the more I know I lived this event even when the doctor tells me nothing out of the ordinary happened and laughs when I recount the scenes that I saw and the music that I heard.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view my experience as a gift because it taught me the importance of my life and why I am here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to expand my experience by helping others, by guiding them at the moment when it's time for them to leave.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miriam_p_nde.html