{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mitch_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Mitch R NDE 3283","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mitch R NDE 3283  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mitch R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1162  Mitch R NDE  3283  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Fifteen minutes after taking a new diabetic injection, I was driving to work at the Veterans Affairs Hospital in Fayetteville, North Carolina, forty miles away. While en-route, I began to have a medication allergic reaction in the car. I noticed my face, tongue, hands, and feet began to swell very large, like nothing I had ever experienced before. I was becoming very scared.  I knew this was much worse than I thought it was because of the reaction I was having.

I diverted my drive to work to the nearest hospital emergency room. I was not breathing very well.  I knew I would not make it to the Veteran's Affairs hospital thirty-five miles away, and I was steadily becoming sicker with each minute that past. I don't know how I was able to make it the last three or four blocks to the hospital emergency room parking lot, but I did and parked my car slowly.

I got out and started trying to walk towards what I though was the entrance, everything around me looked gray; my eyes were swelling too. Halfway from my car to the entrance, I realized I was not going to make it and I said, 'God please don't let me die like this today,' and that was the last thing I remember. I was found in the parking lot unresponsive with no blood pressure a faint pulse and not breathing. What I vividly do remember was not feeling my body at all; there was no sense of pain, discomfort or sickness that I had been feeling at the time that I seemed to have left this world.

I remember that I had a sense of knowing and awareness that I was in a light blue mist or cloud. And while I was briefly there I had the most wonderful and peaceful feeling of wellbeing and comfort like nothing I had every known before. I was mentally aware, but I did not feel my body at all. I seemed not to even have to breathe. I thought I was in a place between the body and spiritual word of the afterlife, but I did not have any concerns or fear as if I had while I was experiencing my medical event. It really seemed like a place of sanctuary, beyond the physical boundaries of the flesh. It was like a place where a person's spirit goes when it first leaves the body.

The next thing I remember was a faint voice of a young lady, it seemed distant and then came closer to me. As I heard her, I wanted to respond but could not find a way, so I took a few breaths knowing she might see this if she was looking at me. Suddenly she sounded much closer and I heard her say, 'He has a faint pulse, and he is breathing. I realized I had left the bluish mist, however I could hear people now, but I could not move my arms and legs they could not be felt. I wanted to go back to the mist of peacefulness and tranquility, but I could not fully return to it.

Next, I felt myself floating in the air and moving. I was lifted up, but could not feel any hands, only the sensation of floating. I was taken to the emergency room trauma room, the doctor rubbed my chest, and I could mumble but could not speak. I could hear people taking in the room. Then I pressed myself to speak as best I could to the doctor to tell him of the medications I had taken earlier that morning. He told the nurse to given me an IV, and a few other medications to reverse the severe anaphylactic shock which I was suffering.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'August 6, 2007'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Severe anaphylactic shock.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Strange as it may seem, I was at my highest level of consciousness while in the bluish mist, and can never forget what I felt and thought while I was there. Perfect peace.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I only saw with my spiritual eyes - Mind's eye.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sounds in the mist, only live people seemed further away at a short distance.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Don't remember. Only that I arrived in the mist.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I think I was engulfed in the bluish lighted mist.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Greatest peacefulness I have ever felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Native American Indian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The heart is the essence of the person. When you go into the mist, you should have a good heart and spirit. When I deal with people who are afraid of what death is I can tell them what to expect and look for.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I am more peaceful at work dealing with supervised staff. My people skills have improved, and are like knowing what people are thinking before they ask, or act. And understanding people more and better, and able to give better advice, and direction. Sometimes I can just walk into a patient's room, and I can feel the hurt and pain of the patient or family members. My supervisor wrote a letter to be placed in my personal file that states I am a gifted supervisor and patient care therapist.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     My gifts are mercy and healing as I have always been told. Now I have had the privilege to walk on a path that we must travel one day, and return to help others who have to walk it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Not particularly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The next day after I returned to work. With doctors, staff, chaplains. News flash! Wonderful news from the other side.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Very real as I slowly responded to the IV medications the emergency room doctor was giving me. And I began to tell of my experience to my friend who came to the hospital to pick me up later that afternoon.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Yes, it is very real. Death is only the passing from this life to the next life. I was not allowed to see the other side of the mist.  But I was given a special moment in time of the most tranquil feeling and place like paradise, I was assured I was not to worry because I was to live this day, and when I returned to my conscious body I did not have the worry and fears I had before the event.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mitch_r_nde.html