{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1missy_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Missy B NDE 2676","mylang":"de"}
          	        Missy B NDE 2676  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Missy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						880  Missy B NDE  2676  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  In the late summer of 1994 at the age of eighteen, I was involved in a bad car accident where it left me with a head injury and a term of loss memory. It took me a whole year to finally gain most of my memory back. To be truthfully, there are some things that I still don't remember. I was told that some would come back later in time on its own. The most recent that came back and remembering one thing was several months ago.

On the top of my head on the left side, there is a 'Y' shape where it was stitched in total of fifty-three stitches. I went through what you can or could call it, a near death experience. It took me a long time before I finally felt ready to be open and more comfortable to talk or share about it.

When I experienced the near death experience was when I first saw a small white fluffy spot in the distance as it grew bigger and closer like some 'tunnel', but it was white and bright. The feeling during the near death experience is remarkable and is hard to describe. I only could tell in words, but it is not how it is to be felt while on earth. The true feeling was amazing where you don't feel any pain, anxiety, worry, suffering and any type of worse feelings that you experienced out in your lifetime. It was peacefully, joy, no pain and best feelings of all that you could even imagine - the best feelings ever! As the tunnel grew bigger and closer and I saw a small child in distance as the child was walking toward me. I recognized the child and her name was Teena.

Teena is a sister of mine who passed away years ago in the fire at our home at the age of five on the day of 21st of December in the year of 1977. Of course, it is impossible to remember her because I was only a year old when she passed away, but I have always seen pictures of her and would never forget how beautiful she was and even she looks a lot like me when I was a very young girl.

As Teena was approaching me and started to talk. The funny thing is that she signed to me the whole time. I was in awe because she never knew American Sign Language and she died before I became deaf at the age of eighteen months old due to spinal meningitis. It is amazing how 'they' really do know how to communicate when they never knew any other language while living on the earth. As the conversation went on, she told me it was not my time and that I need to return to earth to our family. At first, I wasn't sure why she said it and I felt that I didn't want to leave her. She repeatedly said that it was not my time and that I need to go back. I asked her why is it that I need to go back and why was it that I see her?

As her face glowed with the most beautiful smile, she had told me I was involved in a bad car accident and that I was severely hurt. She pointed down as I turned my head back to look down. I saw myself lying on the bed at the hospital in emergency room. It was shocking seeing my face was full of blood as my flesh was asleep struggling to stay alive. I could see several doctors and nurses were working on me keeping me alive. I turned my head back facing Teena and told her, 'No, I do not want to go back, I want to go with you.' Teena with her gentle smile said that I will one of these days, return back and those good things are about to happen in (my) life where I will have a good life.

Then she told me to tell our parents that she is okay, is happy and for them to stop blaming themselves for her death, and to our mother not to feel bad because she was not able to keep her promise and it was not her fault. (The promise that our mother made to Teena was that she will always be safe and that our mother would not allow anything bad happen to Teena.) She told me to tell them that she loves them dearly and not to be sad anymore. She told me to take care of my parents and that she loves everyone in the family. The time was running out and it was starting to fade away. We told each other that we loved each other and told each other bye as she started walking back to where she first came from, and then it fades away.

Here I come back to where I was at lying on the bed. I woke up screaming in a horrible pain as there was some confusion not knowing what had happened. At the time, my fiance was asked to come in the room to where I was at as the doctors and nurses did not understand what I was saying. I was saying where was my sister and I wanted to know where she went. My fiance thought I was asking for my other sister, Tammy (elder sister) and he said she is on her way. I went sleep as I was drugged.

When my sister, Tammy arrived, my fiance woke me up and told me that my sister was here. I reached out for her then I did not recognize Tammy and said that is not the little sister, the little girl. Tammy saw what I said; she burst into tears and knew whom I was talking about. Tammy had told me that everything will be okay and that our dad is on his way. A few minutes later, here our dad arrived and the first thing I told him was that she is okay, is happy, not to be sad and that it wasn't any of his fault. Our dad stood there and looked at Tammy. Tammy had told him what she had suspected what had happened then our dad burst into tears, cried for whole half hour and comforted me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 30, 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury    Other Car accident...it happened while I was at the hospital.  I could have died from the head injury. The doctor said with this type of case most wouldn't make it and was surprised that I made it.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my sister, Teena and that's when I knew something was up to it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Just knew it when I first saw my sister, Teena.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What I experienced, near death experience was when I first saw a small white fluffy spot in distance as it grew bigger and closer like some 'tunnel', but yet it was white and bright.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I am not sure as I don't really remember that part.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My sister Teena.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     I only saw the tunnel part and it was like I was in between and didn't see anything else beside a bright white light.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See main narrative.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I realized what it meant to be and that I believe more in God and want to have a relationship with God.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Was never much of religious, but do believe in God.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Believe in God more and wanting a relationship with God.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Been around Christian people more often and share verses (Bible Study in a way).  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Believe in God more and wanting a relationship with God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   It is hard to describe it, it is just that I just knew it from my heart.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I take things seriously and I think you can say that I matured.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I had a hard time talking or sharing about it. As time went by and it became easier to talk or share about it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can feel something wasn't right or feel something was off then that's when I knew.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my sister Teena was awesome.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away with my fiancΘ and a little later with my sister Tammy.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Knew it actually happened and that the whole of me inside, my personality has changed.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It seems so real and I knew it wasn't some dream or some type of dream.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It seems so real and knew it wasn't some type of dream.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1missy_b_nde.html