{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1milo_n_fde.html","mytitle":"Milo N FDE 22813","mylang":"de"}
          	        Milo N FDE 22813  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Milo N FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3275 Milo N FDE 22813  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a young street racer. I had a very high powered, modified 57 T-bird (600 hp). We have a county black top with three gentle banked thirty-five mile per hour curves. I used to love to take those curves fast, like a hundred miles per hour fast. I could go in about seventy and come out about one hundred. One day about 5 pm clear and sunny, I was determined to break my record. I came in about eighty and it was all I could do to hang on. My only hope was to give it power and try to save it. I doubted I would make it, but I was going to give it my best shot. Just when I got near the apex of the curve and I was going to need all the traction I could get. I noticed some gravel had been pulled up onto the road. At that moment, I knew I was dead and instantly I was out of my body. I was like a little fly flying around the back of my head and watching every move I made. I also had time to see everything around me and take it all in, each amazing detail. I saw the back of my head for the first time in my life and was irritated at how my part looked. I saw little spots of dirt back in hidden hard to see areas of my car, where only something as small as a fly could get. That irritated me because I took great pride in a clean car. I saw and memorized every detail in the fields and ditches around me. I was totally calm seemingly uncaring if I lived or died.  But obviously, I lived. Somehow, I kept the car on the road. As soon as the car was safe, I was instantly back in my body. When I got home, I got two mirrors (I swear first time ever) and looked at the back of my head. It was parted exactly as I saw. I took a small mirror and flashlight out and looked for those small hidden areas of dirt. They were exactly like I saw them. I again drove out to the corner and all the surroundings and gravel were just as I saw. End of story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969 July
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Race car event.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I thought I was facing death shortly.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Absolutely alert!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     One second seemed like many minutes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Although my motor was screaming loud. I entered a kind of calm, quiet period.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was computer-like. My vision was perfection. But most other senses were dulled.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total calm. Unemotional.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I guess. The calmness probably helped me hold the car on the road.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there may be supernatural.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was able to keep the car on the road.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They said that it was a religious thing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I guess not.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1milo_n_fde.html