{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mimi_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Mimi D NDE 9417","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mimi D NDE 9417  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mimi D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5050 Mimi D NDE 9417  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I have atrial fibrullation. I had been  experiencing a 3-hour stressful conversation with my internet provider while weeding the garden in summer.  I came inside and felt like I couldn't breathe. I ripped my chains from around my neck. I could hear bits and pieces of conversations but I couldn't talk or see. The next thing I remember was watching the blonde ambulance lady saying to the dark hair driver, 'We've  lost her!' as he pulled the ambulance over to the side of the road. 

  It was so peaceful and I felt intrigued at what they were doing. I was standing/hovering up at the back of this woman who was trying to revive me. I was there with my mother who had passed over. She was not young or old, and she looked different than when I had known her.   I knew it was her even though we didn't speak.  It is hard to explain.  It was like  knowing; like being part of everything. It was something so beautiful that I still yearn to feel it again. 

  Mum and I were standing and watching. Then mum turned to go as  I also turned. Then it was like I was hit.  I often joke and say that my mum kicked my butt back into my body. 

  I heard the ambulance lady say, 'She's back!'  I was going in and out of consciousness.  I think they put something down my throat, which later I found was life support. I came back at 8.30pm. I still couldn't see very well and felt dull. The nurse said to me, 'We had lost you for a while.' The first words that came out of my mouth was, 'I was with my mum.' I felt wonderful and  wanted to go back. I wanted to feel that incredible feeling again. I wanted to know what we were doing and where we were going. I wanted to go but knew I was here for a reason. 

  The doctors have no idea why I died or what caused it. I think it was a combination of stress, dehydration and atrial fibrillation. Two months later, I knew why I was back.  My story helped a young man who lost his best friend in an accident.  From there all these years, it's been the same. People are drawn to me and my story helps them. I feel blessed that I can help people. I believe in God but don't go to church. I believe that there is something amazing after death; like you become a higher being, and a part of a universe we can't imagine. The experience has never left me and I feel part of me is still there. I still taste that feeling. I want to understand what it was and I want to know more; I need answers that I know I can't get. It's been 4 years. I'm not well, and waiting on results from cancer tests.  Part of me wants to get better, yet a big part of me is thrilled to go back there. I try now to be the best person I can be to help those that need it. The NDE has changed who I am.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 2018  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       CPR given, have a heart condition.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Only what the paramedic was doing and saying.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was a higher peace; a knowing of huge proportion.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time didn't exist and wasn't important  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was interesting to watch them trying to revive me. I could describe in great detail who the ambulance people were, what they looked like; what they did and said.  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was crisp and I could hear everything being said  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased mother  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like hovering in a cloud of white light  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     It was like being part of everything. I knew there was more beyond, but didn't get there before being revived  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Interest maybe.  I felt  an amazing peace and being of a higher power  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     The only way I can describe it was being part of everything. There was no talking, just an incredible understanding.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  I laugh and say my mother kicked my butt back into my body  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My life now is very spiritual  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I like to believe when you die that the angels come and take you to a new world, but it wasn't like that. I was sent my mother to guide me to a place that I can't explain or even comprehend. I was  like I became atoms or a higher being with no emotions, just a higher knowledge of peace  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a better person. I now know where I'm going and no longer fear death.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I knew I had existed and had passed  over.
  
  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes      it exists.  I have no doubt at all  
  
  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     The knowing was that there was more.  I knew that my mother was the guide to take me there  
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I returned as it wasn't my time yet.   I still had  a job to do to help others  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The knowing of what was out there and where I was going  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Help others was the message I was left with  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Everything about me has changed. I don't feel like the same person. I know I'm here for a reason to help others. I knew back then it was for a short time.  
  
  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value good friends. I have no time for horrible people. I don't have any relationships.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's a knowing inside me, but I've learnt to translate it the best I can  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It's like it happened 2 minutes ago  
  
  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I now deal with crystals and crystal healing. I get  a feeling towards certain people and what they are going through and how I can help them. Before my NDE, I worked in the mining industry and was a rather selfish, indulging person.  
  
  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of being a higher power,  no pain, sadness, guilt, worry, nothing and being part of an amazing universe  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The people I have helped are thankfully and cry like a release or burden being lifted from them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I have no doubts, they have said there was no possible way I could have known all the things that happened around me in such fine detail or any detail.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Explained above  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing on this earth could come any where near my NDE  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, thank you            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mimi_d_nde.html