{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1minerva_nde.html","mytitle":"Minerva NDE\/ADC 31423","mylang":"de"}
          	        Minerva NDE/ADC 31423  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Minerva NDE/ADC   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1597 Minerva NDE/ADC 31423  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have a bi-level home.  When you walk through the entrance door, you  either go up a flight of stairs, or go down a flight of stairs. I had to walk  by the top of the steps (which has a view of both stairways, and the entrance  door) to go to the bathroom.  I always  glance to the door to see the outdoors.   I saw my father coming up the steps from downstairs.  I saw the top and back of his balding head  and his back as he was coming up the stairs.   He was wearing a red checkered insulated flannel coat.  I was startled at first, I was home alone,  and I thought it was an intruder.  But,  once he reach the top of the step, I realized that he had no legs, he was  floating up the steps, then he disappeared.   I told him that this is my home, and I hope he liked it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/01/06

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I hadn't seen my father for at least seven years before he died.  When I seen him at his funeral, I didn't look at his face much.  He had a balding head, and had gained a lot of weight since I last seen him.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I hadn't seen my father for approximately 7 years

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I think he wanted to see where his daughter and his grandsons live.  My son’s bedroom are all downstairs where he was coming from.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was beat to death by my ex- husband in 1991.  I had a near death experience.  I knew that the body and soul are separate in death.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?       More spiritual than religious

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No         
    
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't know

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My ex-boyfriend doesn't believe me, but my best friend said she had a similar experience when her father died.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was completely alert.  I had no recollection of my father balding, and had not seen his back or the back of his head.  I only seen him in a coffin for the past seven years.  It was him!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1minerva_nde.html