{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1milo_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Milo H NDE 2324","mylang":"de"}
          	        Milo H NDE 2324  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Milo H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						681.5  Milo H NDE  2324  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had an NDE when I was eight in 1984, as a result of being in a coma. I'm one of the youngest kidney patients, here in the Netherlands, that has survived my disease and through that, I have been an experiment to medical science. This disease struck me when I was two. Now, more and more children are developing kidney problems. Through my history, I have been able to help them and guide them through life. I have been given this task and the strength to complete it.

I'm 29 years old, but due to the many diets I have been on, my physical and spiritual growth has lagged behind. But now, ever since I've recognized my NDE, I have found myself in a true quest for knowledge on a physical and spiritual level.

I have lots of sorrow when I look back upon my childhood because most of the time, I remained in the hospital, and haven't been able to enjoy much of the fun stuff that kids would normally do. For the moment, I still need a lot of confirmation, because I can't yet fully rely on my own spirit and body, that has been recovering since I was a kid. In a way, I'm now going through my childhood now, as I have acquainted much of my old age when I was still younger. What I have learned is that a human life is of immense value, which is in no way expressible in money. Material possessions don't interest me. They're fun to have, but after we die, the only thing we can take with us, are knowledge and memories.

Ever since I've recognized the NDE after all those years of denial, something in me is evolving, but that too is hard as so few people are willing to listen and understand me. People say I'm crazy and stay away from me. More and more I acquire gifts such as clairvoyance and a high sensitivity. At moments when I feel good, I can see auras. The physical body fades away and the only thing that remains is the soul, that then reveals the traumas we humans endure. Because of the sensitivity I have, I sometimes feel quite isolated, because I get to see so much information of other people. That's really hard to cope with, because I tend to get carried away by it, and end up being hurt myself. Because I'm a real emotional soul, I often attracted pain and suffering from others. This has nested itself on my weak spot, my kidneys.

When I had my NDE, I have literally been out of my body and have made a trip through time. Now I see and encounter things, I have seen twenty-one years ago. It is so unreal that it's mind blowing. My deceased grandfather, who has told me everything about life now and what the future will bring, guided me. People will first be the victim of an enormous downwards spiral and many will suffer. People who don't want to listen will be removed from earth. I have seen the earth from above, sailed through time and received knowledge that is still hard to understand.

During my youth, I haven't been able to build up a circle of friends, due to my many hospital visits. I have felt lonely at times, and I sometimes still have that feeling, because as I said, not many people add value to my experience. It's starting to annoy me, because it makes me feel being stuck. I wish to talk to people that have encountered the same thing, in spiritual language.

I have been given enormous powers to help people heal themselves. I have an important message for the laws concerning organ donation, because it is a hot topic in the medical world. I have received the knowledge that our thoughts really construct our physical bodies, our personalities and who we are as a person. Our soul drives the body.

I'm searching how to process this knowledge, but most find it 'not interesting'. I haven't been granted a diploma for my wisdom I received, so it makes it real hard to prove it to people without being mocked. I'm looking for some confirmation, but slowly and steady, I can say to myself 'I know better'. These are powerful things to say to yourself. But it's nice to sometimes get that confirmation from someone. It's a process, as well within me, as to the world out there.

Most people have a very negative attitude towards 'diseases'. They stay away from diseased people because they experience it as being negative. When I talk about my dialysis, people often lose interest, as they really want to keep their eyes closed and stay away from it as far as possible.

I have taken the task to help other people. However, lots of them aren't pleased when you tell them, 'You shouldn't smoke, or drink, or work too hard, because it will deteriorate your health.' The reply I often get is; 'Mind your own business.' People see it negatively, but I really say it to help them. There's no luxury in being a little concerned towards each other. To me, it's pretty hard to see in advance what is going to happen with someone. I have to let it happen, because it's what is best for that person's spiritual growth. We learn from mistakes and become stronger. We encounter things on our way that we can handle and that belong to our spiritual growth.

I'm looking for support, because although it's beautiful what's happening inside me, I come to realize what this is going to mean for other people and the medical world. It can change the entire vision, because the medical world holds to the idea of organ transplantation, from a living person or a donor. However, I know that a human is build out of cells/tissue. Every cell has its function, and they all work together. Cells have memory. Our thinking influences our cell memory. By the power of mind, you can reprogram these cells. It's just like with a computer that gets overloaded. Once you delete some files, the computer will work better again. It's just like that with humans, old and not useful thinking habits must be deleted and be reprogrammed to be able to function better.

And into detail report of my NDE;

From what I know and from what I can remember, I have been out of my body. I have seen another world with so many colors, a sort of paradise with so much love, peace and acceptation. Furthermore, my deceased grandfather, who told me about life, has guided me. He told me 'why things happen' and he let me see things in the future. I have seen my entire life review and I even have a little taste about the things to come in a future life. Only, that I can't see yet. I'll get to see it at the end of my life.

I was told that we as human beings are the nature itself and that it's about time to change some of our lifestyles and behavior. I have flown over the earth with my grandfather and saw the beautiful nature from above. I saw the damage done to the forests and what can be the consequences of that. I know that a lot of help is needed in the third world. I have seen this because I will travel there in the future, to teach other people to use their mental powers, so they are able to cure from AIDS without medication, solely through mental thought and communication with your body.

I learned that life and death are one and the same. There's only life, we come and go. People see death as something to avoid, but it's a continuous process. When someone dies, somewhere a baby is born.  The baby gets an opportunity to grow and become a better soul, until you have acquired enough knowledge to become a guide, and guide other souls. You can do that in the physical life itself, as I do now, because I know I'm in touch with the universe. I'm a helper of the light, or as we call it, God.

Everything that happens in our bodies, you can see in nature as well. There's a continuous supply and removal of food and waste products. We eat food and it is processed through harmoniously working cells. Here I'm talking about nature again, because it's important to be in touch with it. If we pressurize ourselves too hard, and lose sight of the harmony that nature gives us, and then our bodies are forgotten, we ignore certain signals, and we build up physical problems, such as high blood 'pressure'.

We are in an economic crisis right now, and everyone is trying to get things back to normal, but people will have to see that is impossible. It would be possible, but it would lead to even more damaging problems. We are in a time to see that there are other things next to a diploma that are valuable, and that everyone, irrespective of their diplomas, is equal. Too often, people only focus on their mistakes, whereas complimenting each other is so important to keep the whole in balance. I have been given the urgent message, that a lot of help is needed because a lot will suffer from disease, handicaps through the bad habits and food. People can't handle the current levels of stress, demands are getting unacceptable.

A child in the uterus feels all of that, gets a lack of oxygen, which leads to organ failure. The child is in direct connection with their mother through the naval cord, so the child feels when the mother has stress or a high blood pressure, the damaging substances, such as smoking or bad food. That way of life is passed to the child. Children are often classified as being annoying in their behavior, while actually, their parents are in the same pattern. It's confronting really.

The child denies its behavior, because the parents deny it. But things are still repairable, if given good treatment, such as regression or reincarnation therapy. In that way, those people can go back to understand the problem and recognize it, so that the universal energy can do its work again. I get to be part of this, to help people, to guide them with my clairvoyance, but I have to be steady in my shoes first. I have learned that people have to make their mistakes and that only then, I can be of any help when I am asked. That's hard for me, as I said before, because I have received information about that person in advance.

After my experience, the return to my diseased body and the earth was for me quite painful. So that's why I have been very angry, so badly that I have tried to die, because it's so much more beautiful there than here. To anyone else, it's impossible to imagine if you haven't witnessed it. There was a lot more peace, and I suffered from a bad depression, because mainly, I could not speak about what I had seen. Now I'm hoping that in this time some changes take place, so there is more room for the afterlife and spirituality. I know that out of a tiny little cell, something can grow. Just like with a plant or a tree that loses all of its leaves in the autumn, but it remains alive. Reincarnation can also be seen as another word - reintegration. Someone who has no job and wants to get one gets into a reintegration process. Someone who meets her/his life partner. They integrate in life together.

The earth is made mostly out of water. If there is no balance between water and land, for example, when too much rain falls, there is a chance for floods. The human body is just the same, it has to work in balance, otherwise troubles arise. It has been harder for me than I thought before I got here.

I think it's pretty hard to get this out into the open. People look at me and think the things I say are negative, but negative is positive and the other way round.

Greetings and loving spirit, Milo

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3 maart 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Other Nierpatiënt en door een experiment in coma geraakt op de IC beland.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Ik heb een prachtige paradijs waargenomen met zoveel kleuren, vrede, acceptatie andere overledenen.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1milo_h_nde.html