{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ming_yi_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Ming-Yi H NDE 7980","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ming-Yi H NDE 7980  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ming-Yi H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4140 Ming-Yi H NDE 7980  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During running in school physical education, I fell down due to my classmate pushing me to the ground. There were bruises all over my body and my left elbow was hurt badly. My wounds were getting healed gradually as time went by. One day, my mother called me to go upstairs for dinner; I was not careful and fell on the stairs bumping my semi-healed left elbow. I was not feeling anything difference back then except for some pains. Not until when I scooped a bowl of rice, I blacked out with a hum in my ears. 

I felt I was sucked upwards through a beam of light. I saw myself standing on a bed of clouds surrounded in a white misty fog. I felt warmed. As when I confused where I was, suddenly there was an old grandmother wearing a white long robe appeared in front of me. Looking at her face through thoughts, she was about 80 years old; however, she was full of energy and did not look old at all. She spoke to me telling me 'Don’t be afraid, you won’t be desolate, lonesome, and painful anymore. No more all these negative feelings, but filled with complete love.' Yes, I did feel that way as well. Then she told me to follow her. She also reminded me not to turn around if I hear a voice calling me. I then followed her; she became taller than before. I was about her calf height. I felt like a kid, when I held her hands. 

In front of me, I saw people in white robes standing and smiling at me, whose gowns looked like Gandalf from Lord of Rings. Slowly I walked toward them and I noticed to my left that was my paternal grandfather and maternal grandfather. I did not recognize the people, male and female, to my right. I never met them in my life. They were all very kind and smiled at me. Suddenly, I felt panic and heard someone repeatedly calling my name. I was annoyed; impatiently I turned around and wondered who was calling me. 

Hereafter, I woke up slowly. Before I fully gained my conscious, I was confused about what I was doing. Later I remembered I had fainted. I had several episodes after this experience. My Mom tried to wake me up by calling my name continuously before I resumed my conscious. I asked Mom how long I was out; she said it was about two minutes. However, it felt like hours.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         左手肘受傷，在樓梯跌倒再次傷到  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   Left elbow injury, then later fell down from stairs and hurt it again.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  
No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   No differences.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I am getting closer to those people in front of me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Indescribable

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Can you image sitting on a plane and looking at the ocean of clouds outside? It is impossible to stand on clouds in reality.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not that many differences.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A bunch of light that sucked me upwards.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met both my parental and maternal grandfathers. Long white hair and their appearances somewhat had changed, but I could recognize them. For the other elderly, I did not know them.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is difficult to use words to describe. For example, the light is totally different from lamp light on earth.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Felt like on top of the clouds.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt the warming welcome and unconditional love. I felt panic or fear only when I walked closer to the elderly.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I heard a voice calling me to return when I was approaching to the elderly then I realized I was in fear.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My religion and spirit evolved due to I went through an emotional drama and family chaos.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     On my mother’s side, they believed in Buddhism and Taoism. They were firm believers on the Bodhisattva (Buddhistic goddess.) My father’s side were atheist, they told me to believe in Christianity is boring and nonsense. So I was very against western religion. Not until my NDE, it had changed me to doubt about what my family had told me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It is not necessary to have only one religion in this world.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The people over there looked exactly like human beings. No difference in features but they are taller than we are.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     女長者沒有和我談論這個問題

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I have been through many challenges and difficulties.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   That indescribable warm feeling; it can’t be felt on earth. It is the unconditional love.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother and sister after it happened. Mother did not believe what I had told her back then. She told me ‘it was only a dream; don’t scare your little sister about this incident because she thought you just fainted’. I also shared this with my relatives but no one took it seriously.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ming_yi_h_nde.html