{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Mike Y NDE 4655","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike Y NDE 4655  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mike Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2358 Mike Y NDE 4655  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in severe pain and had not slept in many nights except for fitful efforts to find a body position to relieve the nerve pain I was experiencing.

I passed out and immediately found myself in a large tube with highly polished sides that were like graphite (pencil lead). The sides were extremely polished and smooth. My conscious feelings were ecstatic. I was out of pain and felt absolutely WHOLE! My whole being was elevated and I felt better than anything I had ever experienced. As I went through the tunnel my whole life experience flashed in front of me, I would say every experience, and I saw how God had made them all work towards His good and perfect plans. I felt totally loved, accepted, secure, and happy. All of the tunnel travel was spent approaching a great light that I perceived as God, Jesus, or perfect love. I was conscious that I was in a new dimension but did not think back to my former existence. I was just here, where I was at the moment. There were no decisions to come back or not, I do remember wondering of it but then I awoke or came back.

I can state with certainty that this was not a dream; it was a life experience. You do not remember dreams with this much clarity, vividness, and duration in time. I am sharing this off the cuff eight years later and it is like yesterday that it happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept. 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was very sick with advanced Lyme disease and in severe central nervous system distress.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the tunnel I had a feeling of being that was so complete.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the tunnel I had a feeling of being that was so complete.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know how long the experience lasted, it seemed like a very long time on the other side or it was a timeless state.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     To see what I saw and experienced I had to have extra-sensory ability to take it in.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was a vivid circular tunnel of what I would call polished black graphite, the sides were not glossy but polished like pencil lead.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I approached a great light which was at the end of the tunnel. I perceived it as Jesus and perfect love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       BEING, absolute clarity of ecstatic being, wholeness, painlessness, perfection.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life scenes flashed in front of my mind. I recall everything I ever did and how it all worked in the whole of God's purpose.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Have had an ability to foresee some things in life but I have seen this as usually normal.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A desire to let God have more of me, and I get out of the way.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A desire to let God have more of me, and I get out of the way.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Love unconditional. Acceptance. Security, Wholeness. Purpose. God as sovereign.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a strong faith; however, I am sure it has more teeth to it now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings of painlessness, ecstatic being, love, are beyond experience that you normally have in life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The absolute knowledge that Jesus' teachings and Being are absolutely radical, simple, true and complete. We ignore them at our peril to complete joy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my wife soon after the event. She was glad I came back. I have since shared it with many because I have absolute conviction that death is a simple transition to another realm. Most reactions are treated lightly like it is beyond positive knowledge to share such things.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mother and father where in a very terrible car accident and both shared trauma experiences of their being visited by dead relatives to bring them home.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was like going on a trip to Europe. When you get back to the States you know you were in a different country but you are now back home. The fact is you were in a different place while on your trip and that is now in your memory but you are home now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is a solid vivid memory.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Prior to the experience I was not thinking about death at all even though I was in tremendous pain and suffering.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thanks, hope I contribute to your quest. God bless.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_y_nde.html