{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mildred_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Mildred H NDE 2833","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mildred H NDE 2833  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mildred H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						968  Mildred H NDE  2833  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was having headaches. I had two small children. My husband and I were having money trouble. I had a headache in the afternoon; I called my girlfriend to take me to the hospital. My husband was at work she called him. My neighbor at the time watched the kids. When I got to the hospital, they took me into the x-ray room. They did not know what was causing the headache. They wanted to do a spinal tap. My husband Scott had just came in to the room with me. They started with the shot to help with the pain. That was it, my heart stopped. I was wrapped in what felt like velvet, with the LOVE, LOVE, that I have never felt before or after. Then I was told that I could not stay I had work to do. I came back into the body. They had to watch me overnight. The next morning I went home never to be the same. So much LOVE, I help as many people as I can. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	January, 1982  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Allergic reaction       'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Remembering how the love felt.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Seconds.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear it with my ears. I felt it in my heart.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE and KNOWING.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     So many things that I did not know before. I do things that help save my life every day.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not go a building to think GOD.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not go a building to think GOD.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   LOVE is one thing that is felt above a things.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Loving, caring, giving. Not a lot of needs for me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To talk to anyone about it, took me over six weeks to tell my husband. I was looking for answers that no one knew. I turned to the Bible.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That death is not the end. I know I do not walk alone.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not very many, I have to get close to a person and know of their will to understand. It is always good.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My heart was happy, I no longer felt empty.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     When things happen, I Know they are teaching me the things I have to do to get to the other side.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Had to go through a death of a child with a friend, we did it together.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mildred_h_nde.html