{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mildred_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Mildred K NDE 3808","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mildred K NDE 3808  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mildred K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1786 Mildred K NDE 3808  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I got off work that morning, feeling like death warmed over. My boss drove me to my doctor's office. I saw my doctor coming toward me - I collapsed. Next thing I knew it was the next morning and my doctor was having me loaded into an ambulance. He told me that our hospital was a small community one and didn't have enough oxygen to keep me alive.

The ambulance was en-route to St. Francis Hospital and I was not getting enough oxygen to keep breathing. That's when the emergency medical technician asked the driver what our estimated time of arrival was because he was running out of oxygen.

I wanted to cry, but I remembered that my family did not know what had happened to me - and then it happened! Everything was totally black for a minute or so. Then I found myself in the most vibrantly beautiful rose garden that anyone could ever imagine! The foliage was vibrant, glossy green and the rose blossoms were absolutely enormous and so exquisite in both color and fragrance. I was very peaceful in my own mind, not really thinking of anything except the overwhelming peace and glorious beauty of the beautiful, seemingly endless garden of perfection.

I was there surrounded by perfection. Then, I heard a noise behind me, a slight rustling. Then I saw my mother, who has been deceased since 1990. There were others with her; my father, deceased in 1960; my sister, deceased in 1980.  Others of my family were standing behind mom, dad, and sis. I asked mom if she loved it here, because I sure did. Mom had a rather worried look on her face. I asked mom what was wrong. She said that I had to leave this place because I was not to be here yet! I told her that I never wanted to leave this wonderful place! She told me that I had to return, it was not my time yet. I told her that I didn't want to leave and she told me that I had to, it wasn't my time.

A few minutes later, everything went black and I woke up from a coma nine days later. The doctor said that I was dead on arrival. They revived me three times that first night and called my family in because I wasn't going to survive that first night. I woke out of a coma nine days later surrounded by my crying daughters and family.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January 21, 2002'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The last thing I remember was the emergency medical technician in the ambulance told the driver to step on it or I was going to be dead on  arrival.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   At all times - it was very real! I was there!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times - it was very real! I was there!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was much clearer and my senses were highly alert.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much clearer and brighter.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased parents and siblings.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A most beautiful rose garden with a glow as fom a well lit city in the distance

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, warmth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'I am an Apostolic, What people call..A holy Roller

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was truly meaningful to me because now I truly know where I'll be when I pass from this earth!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My doctor asked me if I had had any unusual experiences and I told him about it. He seemed to be amazed at it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real and I will treasure it always.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now, six years later, I know it is my reality when I pass on.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mildred_k_nde.html