{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_w_nde_122.html","mytitle":"Mike W NDE 122\/20920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike W NDE 122/20920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mike W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						665  Mike W NDE  122/20920  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 122  					</p>  					

The pushbike rapidly gathered momentum as I pedaled hard down the hill. I could feel the December sun warm on my back and hear the wind whistling through my hair - it was good to be alive. I guess this enthusiasm for risk and speed was one of the contributing factors to the accident I was about to have.


My pushbike was a fixed wheel racer, there was one gear with no free spin, and the pedals just kept coming around as the bike moved forward. As I leaned further into the corner to navigate the left hand turn, I could feel the wheels start to slide out on the loose gravel and then the pedals came around to lift the back wheel clean off the road! I had totally lost control of the bike.


The bike leapt from the road, crashing out of control, and buckled into a mangled heap of twisted metal. At the same time, as a helpless passenger I was launched from the seat and hurtled through the air, smashing face first into the concrete curb. I was knocked out cold and lay on the road in a pool of blood totally unconscious. The lady in the nearby house seeing the accident happen ran screaming from her verandah to try and help. She lifted my limp hand but could not feel any pulse. The ambulance was called and I was rushed off to the hospital. I lay in a coma in the hospital bed for the next 5 days.


I don't remember hitting the curb. Instead, I was standing on the side of a gently sloping hill. The grass lay flat on the undulating hill as if it had been wind swept over many years. I realized that I was not alone. Beside me stood someone dressed in brilliant white. The sky was totally dark behind me and to either side - but there was a light in front - over the top of the hill - a clean white light like the rising of the early morning sun. The person beside me, perhaps an angel or perhaps the Son of God, took me by the hand and we slowly walked up the hill together. And as we did the light shining beyond the top of the hill became brighter and brighter.


The next moment I was looking over various scenes of my life - past, present and future. I saw my life replayed before me as if I was watching a three dimensional movie - a live drama. Each scene I saw in detail exactly how it happened, as I seemed to flick right through my life story right up to my present age of fifteen. Each scene was real with plenty of time to reflect, yet it all seemed to take no time at all. I felt very exposed watching all this, yet the one in white standing next to me did not appear to judge me - rather I seemed to judge myself.


I saw myself standing on a stage in front of many people. Beyond the spotlight that shone out of the darkness, I could make out a sea of faces eagerly looking up towards the stage. The host motioned for me to step towards the microphone and as I moved forward, I began to speak the gospel message of Jesus Christ. Jesus loves you with an everlasting love. He loves you so much that he died in your place to free you from sin so you can experience new life in him. And then there were many hands being raised in response to the Gospel - to accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior.


As these scenes flashed before me, I realized that we had reached the top of the hill. Standing on the edge and looking out over the panoramic scene before me, I could see a city in the distance. It was sparkling in the sun as though it was made of glass like something you would read about in a fairytale story. The person in white was asking me if I wanted to enter into heaven - the holy city. If I saw it, I could never return to the earth or my family. Or did I want to go back into my physical body on earth.


I was a Christian, having given my heart to the Lord at a young age of 10. I loved God but was mostly afraid to tell my friends at school, and pretty regular at going to church but that alone doesn't count for much. I would love to stay here in this wonderful place. But now I could see a glimpse of my family crying and praying for me. Not that I could earn my way to heaven, but rather I realized that my life on earth would be more fruitful if I chose to allow God's will to unfold in my life. My heart was divided. I wanted to stay here and enter into heaven, but I also sensed that God had a plan for me to be a part of. Maybe I should return to earth.


Yes. I will go back. I had made the decision. I know I was shown more than this, yet the words kept ringing in my ears 'you will not remember the things you have seen, you will not remember the things you have seen....' It was like coming out of a fog, a deep sleep, and all the time I was trying to hold onto the many scenes as I could, but felt them slipping, slipping, slipping....


I could feel the clean sheets against my legs. There was a peace in the hospital room as I came out of the coma, and it is reported that I was humming the tune 'To God be the glory great things he has done'. After about a week, they let me look in the mirror. I didn't recognize myself - I was completely covered in scabs where the gravel scraped off my skin and stared back at myself out of two bloodshot eyes. Two of my teeth had been snapped in half. An experience I thought no-one would believe, but God had impacted my life.


Fourteen years later, I was in Madras in India on a missionary trip. As I stood on the back of an oxen cart, stepped up to the microphone and shared the gospel message, I suddenly realized I had been here before. The light shone out of the darkness, the pastor gave an invitation to the audience and thirty to forty Indians raised their hands in response and asked Jesus into their hearts.


God is outside time. He created time and space, the world and the universe, and has a plan for each one of us. Are you ready for the journey?


----------------------------------------


In addition to this account there are other events I have not included but I think are relevant.


(1)  I remember being in the hospital intensive care room - at about ceiling height.  I saw two bodies on hospital beds but did not feel like I was supposed to belong to either. I heard them talking about one person that had been brought in that had been in a gas explosion and suffered burns over his body.


(2)  After I came out of my 5 day coma, I was allowed to look in the mirror.  Scabs covered my whole body. Mum asked me if I remembered what had happened - because I had been in the intensive care room I thought at first that I had been in the gas explosion.


(3)   I had a sense whilst in my NDE that I knew heaps of information that I had never learned. Mum said that when I was in the coma I was reciting all the states of the USA etc. - I only know about five states!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    December 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  COMA FROM HEAD INJURY ACCIDENT  Life threatening event, but not clinical death My parents were convinced they would never see me again. (I do not know what the doctor's reports were). A later MRI scan of my brain shows minor damaged tissue at front and rear possibly resulting from this accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was outside my body at about ceiling height.

I had another serious pushbike accident in 1980 when I was hit by a car.  Again I was outside my body looking at the crash site from about 3 to 5 meters above until I came back into my body and felt blood coming out of my head as I lay on the road.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Physically - in a coma.  However I felt alert more than normal - an enhanced alertness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Was totally outside time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     bright light brilliant like early morning sun.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Angel (or Jesus Christ)

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright light brilliant like early morning sun.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Saw a glistening city in the distance and had the choice to continue but could not return.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It was as if I knew all this information I had never learned.  When I saw Jesus he did not speak to me - it was as if I knew exactly what he was thinking and he knew exactly what I was thinking.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything - including things I thought no-one else knew of.  It was in 3 dimensional like it was actually happening.  I was determined afterwards to avoid evil/sin.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Saw myself standing on stage in front of dark people speaking into a microphone.  This happened so exactly when I was in India some 14 years later it was like 2 photos superimposed.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Cavern.  Did not cross.  If I crossed, I would not have come back to life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Was torn between wanting to stay and wanting to return to earth for (a) my family and (b) to fulfill my destiny.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Christian

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was like another world - what I experienced cannot be completely described in words. Like at the start I felt like I was speeding through space, but not moving. I was outside time. Etc.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Ability to prophecy and see visions, and have experienced the power of God in awesome way.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part - being in the presence of God.  Worst part - seeing my life played out before me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Find it incredible but believe me. It is an encouragement to them. My parents also believe me and had a sense of peace when I was in the coma that I was in God's presence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Another accident in 1980 - hit by a car.  Left my body and saw myself lying on the road whilst looking down from above.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      ife after death is a reality - it is only a breath away. I feel that more people (everyone) should take stock of their lives in this light and prepare for eternity.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Yes - immediately after the NDE it was so unreal coming back into reality and such a contrast that I was hesitant to share with others on the misunderstanding that people would think I was mad.  Has anybody else had this feeling?

</h5> Experience Description 20920  					  					

As a teenager I had a serious accident that nearly killed me - this is my personal account of a near death experience and how it radically affected my life.


The pushbike rapidly gathered momentum as I pedaled hard down the steep hill. I could feel the December sun warm on my back and hear the wind whistling through my hair - it was good to be alive. My enthusiasm for risk and speed gave me an adrenalin kick - but was about to be my fatal tango with death.


My pushbike was a fixed wheel racer, just one gear with no free spin, and the pedals just kept coming around as the bike moved forward. As I leaned further into the corner to navigate the left hand turn at the bottom of the hill, I could feel the wheels start to slide out on the loose gravel and then the pedals came around to lift the back wheel clean off the road! I had totally lost control of the bike!!


The bike leapt from the road, crashing out of control, and buckled into a mangled heap of twisted metal. At the same time, I as a helpless passenger was launched from the seat and hurtled through the air, smashing face first into the concrete curb. I was knocked out cold and lay on the road in a pool of blood totally unconscious. The lady in the nearby house seeing the accident happen ran screaming from her verandah to try and help. She lifted my limp hand but could not feel any pulse. The ambulance was called and I was rushed off to the hospital.


I lay in a coma in the hospital bed for the next 5 days!


I don't remember hitting the curb. Instead, I was standing in a place out of this world on the side of a gently sloping hill. After a trip through space at incredible speed, I found myself in this amazing place? Was this heaven? The grass lay flat on the undulating hill as if it had been wind swept over many years. I realized that I was not alone. Beside me stood someone dressed in brilliant white. The sky was totally dark behind me and to either side - but there was a light in front - over the top of the hill - a brilliant white light like the rising of the early morning sun that made me feel like I was glowing inside. The person beside me, perhaps an angel, took me by the hand and we slowly walked up the hill together. And as we did the light shining beyond the top of the hill became brighter and brighter.


The next moment I was looking over various scenes of my life - past, present and future. I saw my life replayed before me as if I was watching a three dimensional movie - a live drama. Each scene I saw in detail, exactly how it happened, as I seemed to flick right through my life story right up to my present age of fifteen. Each scene was real with plenty of time to reflect, yet it all seemed to take no time at all. I felt very exposed watching all this, yet the one in white standing next to me did not appear to judge me - rather I seemed to judge myself.


Then I had a glimpse into the future. I saw myself standing on a stage in front of many people. Beyond the spotlight that shone out of the darkness I could make out a sea of faces eagerly looking up towards the stage. The host motioned for me to step towards the microphone and as I moved forward, I began to speak the gospel message of Jesus Christ. Jesus loves you with an everlasting love. He loves you so much that he died in your place to free you from sin so you can experience new life in him. And then there were hands, many hands, being raised in response to the Gospel - to accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior.


As these scenes flashed before me, I realized that we had reached the top of the hill, poised on the edge of a chasm. Standing on the edge and looking out over the panoramic scene before me, I could see a magnificent city in the distance. It was sparkling in the sun as though it was made of diamonds like something you would read about in a fairytale story. The person in white was asking me if I wanted to enter into heaven - the holy city. If I saw it, I could never return to the earth or my family. Or did I want to go back into my physical body on earth.


I would love to stay here in this wonderful place. I knew that I was made for this. But now I could see glimpses of my family crying and praying for me. My heart was divided. I so wanted to stay here and enter into heaven, but I also sensed that God had an awesome plan for me to be a part of. Maybe I should return to earth.


Yes. I will go back. I had made the decision. I know I was shown more than this, yet the words kept ringing in my ears 'you will not remember the things you have seen, you will not remember the things you have seen....' It was like coming out of a fog, a deep sleep, and all the time I was trying to hold onto the many scenes as I could, but felt them slipping, slipping, slipping....


Mum was sitting behind the motionless body on the hospital bed. Suddenly the room was filled with the presence of the glory of God....still in the coma I had begun humming the tune of a hymn. A day later, there was a peace in the hospital room as I came out of the coma and opened my eyes. After about a week, they let me look in the mirror. I didn't recognize myself - I stared back at the monster in the mirror with bloodshot eyes, two teeth snapped in half, and a layer of crusty flesh peeling off my face and all over my body from sliding in the gravel. What a sight! What an encounter! An experience I thought no-one would believe, but God had impacted my life - for eternity.


Fourteen years later, I was in Madras in India on a missionary trip. As I stood on the back of an oxen cart in one of the small villages and stepped up to the microphone to share the gospel message, I suddenly realized I had been here before. The light shone out of the darkness, the pastor gave an invitation to the audience and thirty to forty Indians raised their hands in response and asked Jesus into their hearts.


God is outside time. He created time and space, the world and the universe, and has a plan for each one of us. Are you ready for the journey? The choice is yours!!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Bike accident at high speed without helmet.  Landed head first on curb.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  At first, I was seeing my body from ceiling height in intensive care.  After that, I didn't think about if I was in my body or not.  At the end, I felt myself coming back into my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My body was in a coma in intensive care.  I was totally awake but not in the hospital.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   When I saw my life replayed.  It seemed like it took forever but also was instantaneous.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Saw heavenly city.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Someone in white.  I did not have to speak to know what they were thinking.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Light brighter than morning sun, clean and bright.  Did not hurt my eyes but gave me energy as I looked at it.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Totally natural, excitement - like I was made for this.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had amazing knowledge when I was OBE. I just knew all things.  It is reported that I quoted all states of America - to this day, I can only quote a handful.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Amazingly accurate.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Canyon.  No, did not cross.  Knew that if I did could not return.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Didn't want to return but knew I should.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Confidence in God. Not scared of dying.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Was so unreal that when I tried at first to share it didn't make sense to those who were listening.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Often see visions, dreams that come to pass.  Have seen instant healing when I pray for people - deaf, blind, fevers, back pain, strokes etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part - Feeling the elation of the light and where I was, no pain.  Worst part - coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They were encouraged that there is a purpose to life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Only the OBE.  Have had another experience in 1980 - hit by a car. This time an OBE where I saw the accident from high as if I was in a helicopter.  Crowd around the mangled pushbike. Came back into my body after someone from the crowd prayed for me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Have had another experience in 1980 - hit by a car. This time an OBE where I saw the accident from high as if I was in a helicopter.  Crowd around the mangled pushbike. Came back into my body after someone from the crowd prayed for me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Good questionnaire

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_w_nde_122.html