{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Mike R NDE 681","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike R NDE 681  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Mike R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						211  Mike R NDE  681  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was seven years old at the time. I was in the hospital, and was getting dehydrated, so they kept IVs running into me. Back then, they had to replace needles each time they changed one. I felt worse than I can even remember now. All I remember is that I wanted all the pain to stop. I never knew how ill I was until after I grew up. I told my parents the next part, which I will explain to you. They told me that I couldn't remember, that I was to small, and not awake during most of the stay.


What I remember is a feeling of leaving all that behind, and starting to float upwards. There was no ceiling that confined me. As I turned I could see everyone in the room, and my mother and aunt were crying. I saw the nurses, doctor, and my dad all talking. Everyone seemed to be going on as if something bad was happening. As I was watching this I kept floating slowly upwards. I remember feeling a great sense of relief and serenity (which, at that young age, I didn't even know the word for).


I felt all that plus an extreme feeling of knowing that as long as I lived I would never know this feeling again. It was as if I could hear someone saying that all was being taken care of - but I never saw any one. As I was watching below, I saw the nurse take my little pillow I slept with away. She said that it was ruined because of all the sweating and she would dispose of it for them. I didn't want her to throw away my pillow, so I forced myself back to get it. The next thing I remember was grabbing it while she was still close, but I also knew I wasn't hurting as I was before I left my body. That is all I can remember.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I had been ill with spinal meningitis. They had told my parents that I would either die, or become a vegetable.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I seemed to see myself in bed. As far as what I looked like 'out of body' I assumed I looked the same, but I never saw what I looked, like just felt like I was larger in some way.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I thought I was totally aware as I was leaving and returning.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was as if the world below was in slow motion.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Not to say a light. Just no ceiling, maybe like the background you have here. Openness in the sky.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It was like just knowing as the voice said all will be well that I knew it would. That from that moment on I knew all things are connected.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     No in a way was detrimental to me as I had a bad addiction problem for many years, and was never able to feel that feeling. Which in a way I was trying to get to. I do not blame my drug problem on that at all just that it is the only thing that has ever come close.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was angry at the nurse for removing my pillow, so I forced myself back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Presbyterian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Was too young to know what all was going on in or about 1966.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Now and then I can sense what people may say next, or know what they are not saying out loud. Sometimes, which I do not try to talk about, I get the knowledge of a persons death. I can feel it from them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best was the physical hurt being removed. Worst was knowing how well it felt.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most believe all, or at least partially believe.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_r_nde.html