{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Mike W NDE 39","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike W NDE 39  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mike W NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1498 Mike W NDE 39  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Events surrounding NDE: I was in a car accident in 1968 and taken to the hospital critical care unit.



Describe in detail the events (in order) that happened:

As I left the room, I was sort of aware of the people behind working on my body. I was propelled towards a tunnel with a small light at the end of it. As I got closer to the light, it got brighter and larger. At the end of the tunnel, and it seemed that one second I was at the beginning of the light and the next I was out in the light, as if I went from zero to one hundred like that. The place I was in was almost hard to describe. It was a beautiful sunshiny day, and it was a large area of golden long stemmed grass or wheat field with flowers interspaced throughout the place. I was moving over this place and being guided towards a big beautiful tree out in the middle of all this. 

I got to the tree, and sitting on large rock was my dad's dead father. He died when I was three or four years old. Even though I was seventeen at the time and good size, I was sitting on my grandfather's knees. It really felt good to be there with him. All pain and everything else was gone except for us. He told me that I would have to go back to my life, as there were things that I must do. I said to him that I did not want to go back, and he said that he loved me and that I must go back. At that time, I moved off from his lap and was moving back away from the tree. He and the tree got smaller and about that time, I was back in my body. 

I didn't learn from my mother about this in my conscious state until later when I described certain physical features about my grandfather to her.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 24 1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Trauma from the car accident. Days afterward my mother told me that my heart had stopped functioning and the heart monitor went straight line.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like being light as air, and I was up and to the side of my physical body as the nurses were trying to revive me. I heard the constant straight tone of the monitor and saw them putting the defibrillator paddles on my chest. I saw my body jump and about that time I started moving out of the room.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I may or may not have been semi-conscious, I was floating in and out. I felt some pain, and then it would go away. I didn't know if I was given pain killers or not.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Like time was standing still.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When in the tunnel it seemed like I heard a whooshing noise. And when I was in the light it was the sounds of grass blowing in the wind and birds singing.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandfather told me that it was not my time to go.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See main narrative.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt loved and a tremendous warm feeling while I was in the light of that field.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     We all must be one and there will be peace and harmony.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only that I did not die that day, and that I was sent to do something special.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't want to leave that place but it was almost like it was automatic.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     That we are all human and we must love one another. I think I learned that all must be love.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It was the best feeling in my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part being in the light in the field with my grandfather, and feeling the love and warmth. Worst part having to come back to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Amazed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_w_nde.html