{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mikae_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Mikae Y NDE 2355","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mikae Y NDE 2355  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mikae Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						686.5  Mikae Y NDE  2355  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I met my late father (he died twenty years previously from the date of my NDE). He was standing with my late uncle (he died about fifteen years previously). I didn't talk to my uncle, but my father was very surprised to see me. I was just so happy to see him. He asked me, 'Why are you here?' I said, 'I don't know.' Then, he said, 'You must go back.' Well, the place was so peaceful and wonderful, my whole feeling of pain and sadness were gone, and I just wanted to be with him in that place. I said, 'No, I don't want to go back.' He yelled at me and said, 'You must go, this is not a place for you!' I cried. I didn't want to leave there at all. I called him, 'Daddy!' Then, I woke up from a coma. When I saw my family by my side, the first thing I said was, 'I met a daddy.' Everyone thought I was still in a dream.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had a head injury and was in coma for a few days.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I think, at that time, my focus was very strong that I just wanted to stay there, nothing else.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I cried and refused to go back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my father and my uncle, both were dead for many years.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     It was a while color scene and it smelled good and beautiful.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful and wonderful, free from emotional pain.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I think I became more sensitive to what is going on around me.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I started to believe more into a spiritual way to believe God.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started to believe more into a spiritual way to believe God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Since I became more sensitive to others' feelings as well as my own, I tend to choose a relationship that gives me an emotional satisfaction.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to describe my experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I sense peoples' pain more and am sensitive to others' feelings.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        One dream (wish) that I had since my father died was to see him again. I almost thought about it every day, then I met him through NDE after twenty-two years. Since that day, I never had the same wish anymore.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few days after my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I clearly remembered what I spoke to my father.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A lot of things in my life happened to be good ones. I definitely believe that my father is watching over me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This experience definitely gave me a chance to investigate a meaning of my own life.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mikae_y_nde.html