{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mike_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Mike K NDE 4356","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mike K NDE 4356  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mike K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2157 Mike K NDE 4356  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In early 1969 I had an out of body experience. At least this is what I think; it is hard to tell. I was on the Aircraft Carrier USS Hancock during a recovery. I was on the flight deck to de-arm the ordinance of one of our planes when it landed during night flight ops. An F-8 crashed on the fantail (round down) exploding on impact. The airplane broke in half; the cockpit with the pilot went forward off the ship. The debris came flying at us at 110 mph the burning fuel following. I have lived that moment a million times.

After all these years, I can still see the nose of the plane rise up at an awkward angle. At that point, I got a sick feeling. I knew this was going to be bad. The sound was unreal as the fuel burst and ignited. I was staring at a wall of burning jet fuel coming right at me. It was all in slow motion almost frame by frame. I find this hard to put on paper. 

I felt myself looking at myself I was high and to the right of where I was standing. Then the word 'move' came to me loud, very loud and clear. I moved and so did the guy next to me. After the initial blast, I got up and manned a fire hose. Thirty years later, I found that guy on a website and e-mailed him. He said he pulled me from the fire. I don't remember that. It all happened very fast as you could imagine. 

I remember seeing the ship from high up at least a hundred feet or more as the ship seemed small. I remember feeling as if I really didn't want to go back. The voice I heard left no doubt that I was to go back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Aircraft crash and explosion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It only lasted a few seconds so I was at a high level of consciousness the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     What was happening on the flight deck was happening at about 110 mph. But I saw it all in slow motion. I knew someone was with me - high above me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I couldn't understand how I could see myself or see the ship from so far up. It just didn't make any sense.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not able to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Obviously someone was there because I heard the word 'move'. I was on a flight deck with jets turning and an explosion. I had ear protection on. The word move was in my head. I'm not sure if I could have heard anything at that time because of what was happening. The word move was not from me. It wasn't a thought. It was someone. I was aware of a presence but didn't see anyone. They seemed large and above me.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     When I got out of the service I hooked up with a cult. I call it that but it was the World Wide Church of God. I learned a lot but left after over twenty-five years. Now I don't go to church but I feel closer to God than ever.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Not religious but spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     When I got out of the service I hooked up with a cult. I call it that but it was the World Wide Church of God. I learned a lot but left after over twenty-five years. Now I don't go to church but I feel closer to God than ever.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes In the last three years I have grown and changed so much I can hardly believe it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Unlike anything I've ever experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I became clear I had more life to live and learn.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never talked about it until the last few years and then only to my wife and son.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I tried not to think about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I wonder about it all the time. I would love to know more and who it was that commanded me to go back to 'move'. Was it an Angel? Guide? Whoever it was meant business.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After my shipmate told me he pulled me from the fire I believe had I not come back I would have been dead.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Unsure.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mike_k_nde.html