{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miguel_rp_nde.html","mytitle":"Miguel RP NDE 4133","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miguel RP NDE 4133  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Miguel RP NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2084 Miguel RP NDE 4133  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My name is Miguel. At the time of the accident, I was a Technical Non-Com, second-in-command in the Colombian Air Force, specialist in 'rial armaments with twenty years and three months of experience. I did a course in the demolition of explosives and munitions, as well as having been sent to the USAF Albrook Base in Panama, where I graduated with honors, passing out head of the Academy out of students from ten American countries. I was qualified as an armaments instructor, and I always considered myself someone who did not make any mistakes, since to make a mistake in my work means losing your life. There is a very true saying that, 'with explosives a mistake is only made once.' I am going to tell you about what happened on 31 December 1997, by the grace, honor, power and glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

I arrived around 22:30 in the evening from the Assembly of God Christian Center, in Villavicencio, at the Airforce Fighter Command No 2 (Apiay airbase). My fellow NCOs were already in the Non-Coms' Club celebrating the coming New Year. As I had nothing to do, I went to finish setting up some alarms, which I had planned for the protection and security of the base. I ran a few tests, and I got red smoke and red flame. I was going to add potassium chlorate and a little TNT to give a louder and stronger explosion. These explosives are very sensitive. The Colonel had ordered me to install a hundred early warning alarms around the base, of which I had already set up around thirty, and I was going to make around twenty more, and when I got back from vacation I would assemble the other fifty of the hundred I had to make up and install.

I began to mix the chemicals and everything was going fine, I had already made up the improvised casings, some 5mm shells to pack the explosive, and I was working to combine the explosives, using sticks of wood. This is when the children came out of my house and started towards where I was. I told them to get back, as it was dangerous, and I made as if to get up, leaving the sticks on the ground. I then sat down without taking my eyes off them (the children), attempted to grab the sticks to continue the mixing, and I took up a stick with my left hand, in fact, but by mistake and without wanting to I grabbed the knife, which had a wooden handle, with my right hand. I had been using this to expose the cable ends as part of the explosive-casings I was making up. As I went to make contact with the explosives to continue the mixing, my elder son Miguel said to me, 'Papa, no!' I had no time to react and as the metal made contact with the high explosive, a detonation occurred. This was because metal is no friend of this class of explosive (incompatibility). The shock wave drove my hand, with the knife in it, towards my stomach, burying the knife in it, the point exiting on my right side. I was thrown back about five feet. By the grace of the Lord Jesus, I remained conscious, and told my son to put out the flames with sand or earth, not with water, which would make them burn more fiercely and was very dangerous (I did not know what state my son was in). I had not realized my own condition, when I felt something hot in my stomach I looked down and saw the point of the knife sticking out of my right side, and the handle in my stomach, which I grabbed with both hands and pulled hard. The knife came out with a spurt of blood and what looked like bits of meat. I put these back inside my stomach and covered it with both hands, thinking, 'I'll go to the sanatorium' (the base hospital). I could see there was a lot of blood coming out of me and I began to call for help. A colleague came out and put me in his car. I started begging forgiveness of the Lord, saying: 'Forgive me Lord Jesus, forgive me my sins, those I remember and those I do not, those I committed knowingly and unknowingly, forgive me. You promised me eternal life and now I am on the way there.' My friend said, 'Calm down Miguelito, you're not about to die.' I said to him, 'Yes I am dying.' I had a bitter taste in my mouth and felt as if something was separating from inside me. I said, 'Christ I am going over now, you promised me eternal life.'

We got to the base hospital and I got out of the car, holding my stomach with both hands, and lay down on a gurney. I saw the duty doctor, arrive and he began to examine me. At this moment, I was in a black tunnel. Soon a bright light was shining, like having a torch shone in my eyes, and I could see myself on the gurney, the doctor over me saying, 'Steady, Roa, this is going to hurt', and he put my hand on the wound. He said he was going to put something on it in order to staunch the flow of blood. I said to him from outside (my body), 'Easy, lieutenant, go ahead, it doesn't hurt.' His uniform was soaked in blood everywhere. I returned to the dark tunnel, and again the strong light, but this time I was in the pilots' common room. There was a small airplane there, and church people gathered around a person who was on a gurney. There was a strong-looking man with pale skin and blond, or light-colored hair, in the doorway of the 'plane, blocking my view. I tried to touch him with my hand, to make him move out of the way, but I could not touch him, my hand went straight through him. I attempted to get near the patient but I couldn't move, as if I were stuck to the floor. They put the patient in the airplane in a blanket or duvet, as the gurney would not fit in. I returned to the black tunnel, I don't know for how long, as everything seemed to happen instantaneously. I came again to the light, but this time it was brighter and stronger than the previous times. I got used to the light and saw a clear sky, without sun or clouds, neither hot nor cold. I looked at my chest and could see no damage, and I began to praise God, I was well and I was saying, 'Thanks to Christ for saving me, nothing happened to me.' I was feeling myself and could not believe what I was seeing. I looked up and there was no one there. The floor was brilliant like crystal, and then I saw a person dressed in something like a white nightgown, who came near me but without my being able to see his face and hands, which were shining light. When he was near me, I told him I was working with explosives and they had blown-up on me, but without harming me. He told me to calm myself. I asked him who he was.  He replied that he was the Angel Gabriel, that I was in heaven and that Christ had saved me.  I was chosen to belong to the army of God, which is preparing for the last battle. I answered, 'I'm ready to back you in anything at all. We have airplanes and armaments.' The angel replied to me that they did not use airplanes that they flew through the air and were armed with Love, provided for them by Christians in prayer to God. He sent Angels who fired sorts of arrows of love, destroying evil, smashing it in mid-air.

He continued, telling me that the leaders of the Church are more interested in collecting funds to maintain showy temples than they are in helping the needy. The leaders prefer to buy the latest mode of transport, musical instruments and vestments, rather than to assist widows, orphans and poor people in the Church.  The young people of our time particularly are not fulfilling the great task, the simplest way to show love for one's neighbor is this: to spread the word of God, which is not only the task of the Church elders but of everyone. The young are more preoccupied with their meetings, seminars, conferences, conventions etc., than with taking the word to the needy, the indigent, the child of the street, prostitutes. On the other hand, if they see a wealthy person coming to church, the pastor and all the chief brothers of the church will run to welcome and attend him or her.  But if it is a matter of a beggar or a person without resources, they send an usher, or a brother of little account to receive them, as the pastor and the important brothers are busy. Between them, they decide where to put them, far away from the moneyed and important Church brethren, so that the invited pastors are treated like stars, impossible to reach, let alone speak with.

I asked about all the people who had died, as there was not a great number there. The Angel told me that Christians did not die, but slept in the Lord.  He said that they were in a place where they praised and adored their Lord constantly; I asked about children, as I had not seen any, and he told me that children belonged to God and He kept them in a special place in Heaven, of which even the angels do not know the whereabouts.

I asked him if I could see the end of the world, and he took me to a city full of great buildings. In this city, some of the buildings would explode, seemingly because of bombs. We came to one where there was a big room with computers, radar, radio-communications equipment; it looked like a NASA center as we see them on TV. The people were tall, for the most part, blond and speaking another language, but somehow I understood what they were saying. Just then, a person (radio-operator) said he had established communication. I made an effort to look at the numbers of the radio frequency but I could only see the last four digits, 7033. A voice replied to them and asked them for what purpose they were communicating, and what help they required. A man took the microphone of the transmitter.  He said that they needed help.  Here on earth there were some madmen who were in possession of a black book of great antiquity.  He said that very soon a Peacemaker would be coming who would put an end to everything, making a new Heaven and a new Earth, and if this happened it would be the end of all technology and science which had been achieved with such effort up to that point. The voice told them that the only way to avoid His coming was to increase the Evil in the world, put an end to Love, since the Peacemaker had no dealings with Evil and so it was necessary to do away with the madmen who told such tales, not one of them must survive.

I asked the Angel how we would know when these things would come about. He took me into space and showed me a comet, or big luminous star, approaching the earth, which, when we saw it in the sky, would mean the end was near. He turned me around, and I could see the circumference of the Earth with dark shadows surrounding it like rings, and on the surface of the earth were points of light, very bright, and the Angel told me that they were the groups where the word of God was being taught. He took me back again to the great control room with the computers and equipment; they were talking of launching, between several countries, a spaceship to go into space and destroy this comet before it reached the Earth. The ship was like a kind of UFO, capable of reaching the Moon in five hours, and it worked on a principle of magnetic fields. In the center of the disk it carried a fountain of light, like a laser, which made it spin at a velocity so great that it created its own magnetism, and they could change the polarity to repel itself from, or attract itself to, the Earth or any other celestial body. There was some equipment so sophisticated that it could detect the frequencies on which electronic armaments were operating on other spaceships, so that as soon as the pilot of another ship prepared to make ready his armaments, they already knew he was about to use them and could thus prepare to defend. It was almost invariably a ray of light, which they fired off to destroy the danger, they said that by increasing the charge they increased the potency of this weapon.

These men said that this was the sign which those madmen were speaking of and that with the armaments of this spaceship, some missiles and laser-beams, they were going to destroy it.

We left the control-room and I saw that their technology was very advanced. A kind of music in a Diskman, a bit bigger than a matchbox, calmed their pains and stresses. Their pets were electronic, like a sort of robot. If they liked an animal, a dog for example, they put a skin on him and he appeared so natural that one could take it for real. I they wanted to travel, they placed themselves before a TV screen, which displayed all the data related to this person, who they were, what they were doing, in short, everything to do with their life. Transport by automobile and airplane was without gasoline, humans used skintight costumes inflated with a gas, they put a sort of helmet on and some extra bits, like oxygen tanks for divers, then they could float defying gravity. I saw radio equipment capable of communication with another galaxy (the Evil One), there was a drug, aspirated by tube fixed over the mouth and nose, which made people crazy. They would get on motorbikes and ride off at top speed, then drive into walls, killing themselves. Children were slaughtered for harvest, their organs, eyes, tongue, heart and testicles), they were mistreated, violated, and it was like a major prize to get hold of a child who had not yet been violated. There were orgies, male homosexual orgies, women with women, women with animals, married people swapped partners; they said that enjoyment came from change. The authorities were approving of all this, and day by day new laws were passed approving these things. Its character was one of total chaos (Sodom and Gomorrah); they wanted to put an end to everything which was good and increase wickedness. In an area where there was neither law nor governing authority, here in Colombia (an armed group was in charge, I don't know who they were), I saw a group of peasants coming down from the mountains, with adults, young people and children, Christians going to Sunday service. When they got down to the plain, the guerrillas came out and asked them who they were, and one child answered that they were Christians. They were ordered to kneel, as they were about to be killed. The child kneeled down and became their spokesperson, praying thus, 'Lord I do not pray for myself, but for these men who do not know where they are going, whereas I do know where I am going. I ask you to give them understanding and knowledge, so that they may know you.' The guerrilla leader said, 'In Colombia the Guerrilla will never win as long as there are Christians alive, we must finish them off.' He gave the order and they were all killed. The Angel told me that all this evil was necessary in order to avoid the coming of the Peacemaker. The Evil One was using them as a way to put an end to Love. They manufactured a small bomb which when thrown into a group of people, exploded scattering thousands of needles or tiny fragments of wire, impregnated with a powerful poison. Death ensued, whether from the explosion or from poisoning.

There I was, watching all this in complete astonishment, when a voice said that now the final hour had arrived, and the infernal hosts were set loose. In many countries, a water-shortage began, while in others there was water, but too much of it, floods in fact. While some were dying from the lack of water, others were dying by drowning in it. Someone devised a machine which worked by extracting water from the surrounding atmosphere, two vast pipes which by suction extracted the water, leaving the air dried out. One country built a chemical bomb, which had some denomination like RG or RS or SS or 55, something similar. It was dropped on another country where there were many people and animals killed only the buildings and objects such as cars, planes, that is inanimate objects, remained. In the armed forces the persecution of Christians began, they were sent to the front, after explaining to them that they had to put away Jesus, no more preaching or speaking about him, since it was he who would come and bring about the end of everything the human race had created over so many centuries. Many accepted, and renounced their faith, others did not, and these were murdered with a shot in the head. In the streets, the persecution of Christians, (but) the Holy Spirit was sent to Earth to bring the news to Christians that they should begin to gather in constant prayer, since the end was near. I saw that God's Angels surrounded the temples and homes of Christians where they were gathered in family groups, and protected them from the attacks of the Evil One with arrows and bullets of love, which were thrown against Evil destroying and smashing it instantly.

Many of these brothers became tired and went off with their friends to parties, to the movies, to drink liquor, and they said, 'Just one won't hurt, afterwards I'll repent and God will forgive me.' Others went just to accompany them, but one way or another; they were participating along with their friends. While I was watching this I was taken to a place where a woman was about to give birth, and needed to hide the child as it would be killed. She was taken to a desert, but this desert was like an oasis. I don't know how, but while there, God gave them every kind of food and water, whatever they needed God supplied. They (the authorities) tried to find her, but my Lord blinded their eyes so that she was not seen. The whole world was searched and no one found her. Many women were taken to be her but sooner or later they were shown to be the wrong ones.

I was taken back to the computer center where I had been at first, and I heard on the radio that those people who had gone in the spaceship reported that they had not been able to destroy the comet, which was approaching the earth. There was a great commotion and all over the world the order was given to arm missiles, rockets and secret weapons, in other words every armament available, so that when the comet was near to entering the atmosphere all would be fired at it to minimize the damage of impact, as only fragments would then fall. In this way, the Peacemaker would be destroyed, as someone said that the comet was the spacecraft of the Peacemaker. Orders were given to increase Evildoing. I don't know what day it was but it was nighttime when the sign appeared in the heavens, and the Christians prayed harder in churches and in their homes (family groups), as they knew for sure that the end was near. Their persecutions by the authorities increased. This was the moment when the order was given all over the world to discharge all armaments against the Comet (the Sign). I heard a noise as if all the inhabitants of the earth shouted with one voice, then everything was quiet, the night full of stars, everything calm, in peace, nothing moved, nothing breathed, a complete stillness. The angels of God's army were singing because the Peacemaker had arrived. The blue sky cleared, without a cloud, and the whole earth was consumed by fire, as if a blowtorch had been taken to it. Everything took on a kind of burnt yellow color, the houses, airplanes, cars, shattered buildings and all the bodies of the dead. Then I heard a voice telling the Holy Spirit to summon all human beings who had believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, these would be resurrected. I saw how they were rising up, a great number of people, dressed in white gowns similar to the one I was wearing, white without any stain, and they were departing heavenwards in the direction of a cloud, which awaited them. And the Earth would have those who had not believed and had not been praying and watching. Dark shadows emerged and seized them, carrying them off, that is to say, the Earth swallowed them, closing behind them and leaving everything covered with green grass, very lovely to see and well cared for, tended like a golf-course. No trace remained of anything else, buildings, cars, everything that had been there, and all was clean and very nice-looking. I saw many brothers of the Church (Christians) who were swallowed-up by the Earth, and I was bold enough to ask the Angel Gabriel why the Earth had swallowed them since they were Christians and I knew them to be? He said to me, 'Do you want to see what they were doing?' and made a gesture with his hand. I saw that these were the Brothers who had stopped praying and had gone to the festivities and gatherings, accompanying their friends and family to places of amusement, drinking liquor, saying, 'Just one won't hurt!' or 'Later on I'll ask the Lord to forgive me, and I will soon be able to start again from scratch.' These were the ones who let the Spirit be lulled to sleep, who abandoned the great mission, the ones who stayed behind because their white gowns were stained. I saw how many had been saved and compared them with the great number of people who inhabited the Earth, and I could see that the saved were few in number; they were being borne by the Angel Gabriel towards the Promised Land. He took me to a place between two great rivers, and those who had been saved were arriving, crossing both the rivers on foot, and their white clothing remained resplendent. In this place, like a vast island, grew all the fruits of all the climates, that is fruits from cold, temperate and tropical climes. In the river, there was a great quantity of fish, big ones of every variety, and people caught them with their hands.  But only what they needed for daily sustenance, as with the fruits. I could see to the other side of the river which was enormous, and there were people who had no white vestments, and they could not pass, sinking in the water as they entered it.

This is when I was called, and returned to the blue place in which I started, where the Angel Gabriel said to me, 'Miguel, you have to go back, there is a mission for you to accomplish.' I said to him: 'No, brother, I'm not going back, I'm here now and I'm not about to move from here, I'm not leaving.' He said, 'You have a wife and children.' I replied that I did not remember them, and he made a gesture with his hand, and a seated woman appeared, on a kind of white chair, praying and weeping, holding my diary in her hands. I drew near, saw her and said to the Angel, 'Now I remember her, she is my wife.' He asked me if I wanted to see my children, and I said yes. With another gesture of the hands, he took me to a really poor district, with unpaved streets and mud. I was taken near a bus stop, where there were grey concrete storm-drains. We came to a house under construction, or unfinished. The floor was of earth, the walls had no covering (without any finish), and the bath also half-finished and on the patio there were two children playing, covered in mud. Following another gesture, I approached them and could see that yes, I recognized them; they were my children. The angel said, 'You have to go back.' To which I replied, 'No way, now that I'm here, I'm not going back there.' I said, 'What if the next time I don't end up in this place, better to stay for good, no point getting here if I'm going to leave.'

At this moment, I heard a strong, loud voice, speaking in a very special way, with love, affection but also with authority, which said to me: 'Miguel, you must go back.' I looked all around me, up, down, left and right, but no one had spoken to me. Then I asked, 'Who is speaking to me?' I again heard this voice saying to me, 'I am the true and faithful witness, you have to go back.' I said, 'Jesus?' He answered, 'Yes, you must go back.' I said, 'I'm ready, Lord. Thy will be done.'

I turned to the Angel Gabriel and said, 'But send me where my wife and children are. The Earth is so big that I wouldn't need to be sent anywhere else!' He said, 'Calm down, don't worry about it.' I descended on a sort of elevator of light; I thought that I would be appearing to my wife and saying, 'My love, here I am, no harm has come to me, thanks to Jesus, look at me, I'm fine.' But the place I ended up was the intensive care ward of the Central Military Hospital in Bogotá, waking up on January 17, 1998. I had been there for seventeen days in a state of coma, with a probability of survival of 1.5% that is a 98.5% chance of dying, without proper brain function, connected to an artificial lung. The doctors were expecting my heart to stop beating, when they would unplug the machinery; I had tubes in my mouth, nose, chest and insertions in other parts of my body. I could see numberless machines and cables. I called the doctor, on waking up, asking what was wrong with me. They said: 'Liver badly damaged, intestines ruptured, a four inch opening in the diaphragm and esophagus, damage to the bile ducts in the kidneys, bladder, pancreas etc., a lung badly perforated in two places and urinary system damaged, with urethral fractures.' In addition, there was widespread infection, since fecal matter and urine had overflowed throughout the organism, contaminating everything. My recovery was extremely difficult because vital organs were affected. I told the doctors to disconnect me from everything, that Christ would heal me. A doctor said they would not. I told him to call another doctor more qualified, as these were junior doctors and didn't know anything; I said I wanted a knowledgeable doctor. Another doctor came and I told him to disconnect everything, to give me this chance - since science could do nothing, Christ would save me. As in any case they were telling me that I was going to die, they could at least give me this chance. He said no, and went away. After a bit, he came back, and I asked him for the same favor again. He approached me and said in my ear, 'If you die, I have no responsibility, as you are in full possession of your senses.' He proceeded to disconnect me from all the machinery, while saying that I would not see another dawn. He left a kind of peg like a clothes peg on my middle finger, which registered my heart function, and he went away. This is when I began to pray, asking the Lord to heal me, and if he did not heal me, to take me back to the place I had been, because there I was better off. I asked him to take care of my wife and children. (I now realized that in Heaven the love for God is stronger, whereas in the flesh the love for my wife and children was more strongly felt. I remembered them and prayed to God for them). A great white light came and stayed above me. I lifted my arms towards the light (spiritually, being tied to the gurney) and clung to it, hugging it tight, then fell asleep.

I woke up after two days, and the nurses told me that I was singing and praying to God while I was asleep, that I was chattering like a parrot. I could feel phlegm in my throat and I got them to call the doctor. He said, 'What phlegm can you have, if everything has been destroyed?' I said it was true, because God had healed me. This made him laugh and he examined me. They brought him a cable (optical filament), which he introduced by my nose, to look at my throat. He kept looking, and then took it out quickly, called the nurses and I was taken on the gurney at a run, through the corridors to a waiting elevator. I was taken to X-ray where they took many pictures, they did an ultrasound scan, and then the doctor said it was impossible, that something extraordinary had happened, that he could not understand, but what was certain was that I was healed. My organism had completely rebuilt itself, the intestines sealed, the liver in good shape, the perforated lung fine, no blood in it. The whole bile-duct system was good, and the medical exams they did showed that the infection caused by the urine and fecal matter had disappeared. They could not believe what they were seeing. I said to them, 'Take note that Christ has healed me.' The doctor said, in a rather mocking way, 'So you are the miracle of God!' From then on, the doctors knew me as the miracle of God. They took me to the intensive care unit for two more days. The doctor asked me, 'Do you want some milk?' I said, 'Yes, I'm very hungry.' They stuck a tube in my nose and told me to suck through it, as I would not be able to eat anything by mouth yet. The machine reduced the mild to droplets, and when I breathed through the tube which was like a cord going up my nose, the milk went into it and then on down to my throat and stomach. It was the most delicious milk I have ever had in my life. Later I said that I wanted something by mouth, as my mouth was dried-up and grainy. I was told I could have ice cream, and they brought me two ice creams and fed them through my lips. This was the first meal I had by mouth and the ice cream was delicious.

On January 20, my transfer to a ward was authorized, and once I was there I started telling everyone around me everything that had happened, and what the Lord had given me the opportunity of seeing and knowing, as well as the places I had been. When the doctors heard this, they decided that for some reason I was going mad. They began to give me sedatives by infusion, in the serum line used to maintain me. They said I was saying things which had no rhyme nor reason (for me, it was the Evil One who wanted to silence me). From the sedatives, I developed a symptom called 'intensive care unit psychosis' - that is, my brain regressed to the time when I was in the police for nine years, fighting against guerrilla forces. I saw them coming at me while I was in the helicopter firing at them, and they were firing at me. Brother Jimmy, a man of God, came to visit me (in the hospital), and I told him, 'They are bringing us to our knees!' He crouched down to listen to me, and then went out of the ward to ask what was the matter with me.  They told him it was because of the drugs that I was behaving this way. I could see people getting in helicopters to rescue me and I could not run: this was when I took my infusions out and tried to get out of bed, though I couldn't move. Because of this occurrence, they began to tie me to the bed. The doctors started taking every kind of test they could, without finding anything abnormal, but one blood test I believe showed that my lungs were not taking in enough oxygen, so the blood reaching the head un-oxygenated caused my confused state. They did some X-rays and found that a large part of my left lung was affected by the explosive blast, and so I would have to use an oxygen bottle for the rest of my life. They took me to Pneumology where they carried out an examination of my lungs. I blew into a tube and inhaled strongly and the computer showed whether there was sufficient oxygen getting to the lungs. The result was that insufficient oxygenation of the blood led to a lack in the brain. Coming back to the ward I had an oxygen mask fitted, then later the exchanged it for a cannula, two little plastic tubes conveying oxygen through the nose, as the mask was bothering me a lot. The doctors started making studies for some really complex surgery. The following night I awoke with a start, and for some reason I had jumped out of bed and sat in front of the window. When the nurse came, I told her I was going to throw myself out of the fifth-floor window. The doctor was called, as I wouldn't let anyone near me, and she began to talk to me and got nearer and nearer, then taking me by surprise she grabbed me and held me fast, and with the help of all the people around they tied me to the bed again, but this time very tightly.

The next day, in the evening, I sensed that a person came and lifted me in his arms and threw me out of the window. I struggled in the bed and started to weep (for me it was the Evil One who wanted to end my life). At this moment, my sister came in the flesh, bringing me a Bible, which is the thing I most pleaded for, but no one ever agreed to bring me one. This was when one most needs to nourish the spirit; they untied one of my hands and I started reading it. Then a Sister from the House on the Rock Church, called Maria Elena, turned up, and asked me what was happening to me. I told her everything and she said she would pray for me. She laid her hands on me and prayed for my wellbeing, and my lung. She finished praying and left. I was calmer then and that night I could sleep as never before, in peace, tranquility and without pains to wake me up.

Next day they took me down to make tests on my lungs and a scan to properly locate the pulmonary damage. They took the wrapping off my stomach and poured liquid on my back. Then they fixed some apparatus on my back and spoke to each other: 'Look, this intestine is undamaged, the liver, that blood vessel, the kidneys, esophagus, diaphragm.' This was how the doctor was talking to the other doctors and the radiologist, demonstrating the organs, which had been damaged, and which had healed by themselves. He came to the right lung and said, 'Just like new, no trace of anything.' He went on to the left lung, and then came back to the right, then the left again, looking at the x-ray screen and the monitor of the scan. They were saying, impossible, on the x-ray, you can see the damage but on the scan, no damage appears. I said to them, 'Christ healed me.' They took me back to the ward and cancelled the surgery, which was no longer necessary, but fixed another consultation with the psychologist, neurologist and psychiatrist. The first two found me normal, the psychiatrist started asking question after question, a test. I grew tired and said to him, 'You know doctor, I'm going to tell you what happened to me, and so you can say that I'm crazy.' I told him everything, and the doctor said to me, 'What I think is that the Lord is calling you into His service.' I said, 'What if, when I'm well, I retire and go to work for Him?' He asked me how many years' service I had and I told him twenty years. He said, 'Yes, take retirement as soon as you are well.' He left, and in his report, he said I was fit; I was okay and had nothing abnormal. They took out the oxygen tube and untied me; once more the Evil One had been put to shame. After this my vocal cords became paralyzed, inflamed, and I lost my voice. Again the Evil One wanted to prevent me from bearing witness. 

The doctors said that the only way to get my voice back was by refraining from speech for a while.  A sister came and prayed for me, telling me, 'The Lord says that whenever you bear witness, he will return your voice to you,' and I began telling my whole story to everyone that came, through writing, by signs, half-speaking but very smoothly. They arranged for a senior proctology nurse to treat an opening in my stomach, about twelve inches long by eight inches wide. It happened that before she gave me treatment with special chemicals I saw from the way she prayed that the Lord had brought me a Marian sister (follower of the Virgin Mary), and so I began to tell her what had happened to me and how God had healed me through the medium of his Beloved Son, Jesus. So then she said, 'No problem,' and laid hands on me, speaking in the name of Christ Jesus. So she was a Christian (God was sending me his servants to help me). I left the Central Military Hospital on February 3, with the doctors saying my convalescence would be at least eight months. The day before I left, around 9:00 pm at night, when visits were over, and the patients are having their vital signs taken before going to sleep (there were two nurses and three other patients in the ward), a sister in Christ entered there. She was tall, blonde with blue eyes, and she said that she had been sent to pray for me. She took the Bible and read from the Book of Job, and then she laid hands on me, we prayed, and she left. The nurses came over and asked whom I had been speaking to, or whether I was going crazy again. I replied that I was thinking aloud, since if I told them about the sister, who was not visible to them, they would say I was nuts and would tie me to the bed again! I don't know whom that sister was who spoke and prayed with me, for me she was an Angel of the Lord.

When I left the hospital, I went to the home of Brother Jimmy, who is a man of God, a child of God. He took me nearly every day to the hospital for treatment, medical appointments, examinations etc. Around two weeks after coming out, I had my first appointment with a speech therapist, where she was supposed to give me at least a hundred and fifty sessions of therapy to see if I could recover my voice. She laid me down on a gurney, with part of my trunk and my head hanging off the end. She read my history and said, 'So you're the guy who lost his voice, we'll try some exercises to strengthen the vocal cords, say, 'Aaaaah!' I replied by giving a clear 'Aaaaah!' She looked at me in silence, and then said, 'But you can speak'. I said, 'Yes, Jesus Christ has already healed my voice.' She said, 'Well! So you are the Christian, the miracle of God!' I said 'Yes, doctor.' She referred me urgently to Ear Nose and Throat, so they could verify I was okay. I went the same day to the consult and they looked at me straightaway. The doctor made me sit down on a chair and put an optical filament through my nostril. He checked my vocal cords, took out the filament and said, 'Very good, this therapy, your vocal cords are fine, the inflammation has gone and the paralysis completely gone too.' I said, 'Doctor, up until now I haven't had a therapy session, it is Jesus Christ who has healed me.' He looked at me and said, 'I know who you are now, you're the Miracle of God.' I said 'Yes doctor,' and he replied, 'But you are supposed to have fifteen therapy sessions.' Until now I have not been to any therapy, the doctors were planning a plastic surgery intervention (skin graft) as the wound was open and very big, (about eight inches by twelve inches). Some sisters in Christ prayed for me and when I went to the hospital for a check-up the doctors said, 'Your recovery is extraordinary, because the flesh and the skin are regenerating by themselves.'

At the beginning of March 1998, I came home to Villavicencio, and my younger son Michel was frightened when he saw how thin I was. Before the accident, I weighed about fourteen stones (90 kg) and now I weighed less than nine and half stones (60 kg). My son would say to me, 'Papi I liked you better a bit plump.' I told my mother-in-law that the angels had shown me the children in a half-built house and I described to her how the house looked, as well as the fact that the access road was unpaved, with potholes and in a bad state. She looked at me and said, 'My dear, the house you are describing is my brother David's, near Bogotá.' She said the children had been left there for a month. Afterwards I went to the place and took them to the house and everything was just as the Angel Gabriel showed me, the bathroom and the whole house were exactly the same.

The doctors left me a catheter so that I could evacuate urine, since I had seven blockages in the urethra. At the airbase in Villavicencio my colleagues made fun of me and said, 'Okay, if God saved you and healed you, why didn't he fix your urethra?' I told them this was not my problem, it was God's problem, and He knew when he would be glorified in the healing of my urethra, this would be in God's time not my time.' So they said, and they still say now, that I'm a completely crazy guy, with fantastic notions.

On two occasions, they attempted to operate and could do nothing for me, as my organism would not withstand prolonged anesthesia and they would have to wake me up quickly. They left me about three months to recover, and then programmed four operations for December 9, 1998. The first one (perineal urethroplastia) consisted in excising part of the urethra and replacing it by a plastic tube, to see if my organism would accept this type of material, and how I would react. They asked me if I had any children, and I replied that yes, I had two, why were they asking me this? They said that with the exchange in the urethra for a plastic tube I would no longer be able to have relations with my wife, as this plastic urethra would never manage to fulfill the functions of a natural one. In the course of 1998, it was suggested that I transfer from Villavicencio to Bogotá, but I refused, as I did not want to leave Villavicencio. One day a brother came and told us how the Lord needs us to move to another place, but often one pays no attention. Without realizing it, we fail to understand that it is not our will but that of God which has to be accepted, if he needs us to be somewhere else. I spoke with my wife and we decided that if the transfer came up again for the end of the year, I would accept it without argument.

On December 4, I was informed of my transfer and accepted it without objection. My work colleagues were astonished that I had voiced no complaint about this transfer, as they knew that I did not want to leave Villavicencio. December 7, I awoke at around three in the morning and the catheter that I had in my abdomen to evacuate urine had come out of my body, and I was soaked in a mixture of blood and urine. I looked at the opening where the catheter had been, and saw that it had closed up. The end of the catheter has an air balloon injected with about a half inch of water, so that it cannot pull out of the bladder, and this balloon was inflated. I proceeded to extract the water with a big syringe, then woke my wife so she could put the catheter back in. I put a cloth in my mouth and my wife tried it but she couldn't do it, it was impossible. I went to the clinic (the base hospital), and the nurse couldn't manage it either. She called the duty doctor, who tried everything he could and couldn't get it in place. They called one of the doctors in Villavicencio. He came about eight in the morning, tried to introduce the catheter, but could not. He examined me and thought about it, then said he could not understand, since the aperture takes about twenty-four hours to close up. Because it had closed so quickly, it was best to wait until I needed to pass urine, then call him, or get to the hospital in Villavicencio to get the catheter put in between my legs, as they could not work through the wound in the stomach. Then we would wait to see what happened when I went to urinate. I went home and when I felt the need to urinate, I went into the bathroom and said, 'Okay, Lord, you have already healed me.' I turned on the shower and the hand basin tap, to hear the flow of water, so I would have more desire to urinate, and felt that the pressure of urine inflamed my penis. Then suddenly, as if a hose has been unblocked, bits of what looked like flesh, blood and urine shot out, and how wonderful it was to urinate like anyone else! I gave thanks to my Lord and understood that when I accepted his will, he had healed me. December 9 arrived, and I went to the central military hospital to check in, but while I was in the line, they told me that the doctor was at a symposium in Cartagema, and my operation was postponed until December 29.

Come December 28 I found myself waiting in line to check in at the hospital, when Doctor Nelson Velazquez the urologist passed by and asked me how I was. I said I was great, thanks to Jesus Christ who had now healed my urethra, that I had been passing urine for the last twenty days without difficulty, normal and flowing. I handed over the medical notes for my pre-op examinations, and he asked me to accompany him. He summoned five more specialists, I was offered a large glass of red wine to drink and two bottles of water, and they discussed between them the fact that in five minutes they would have me urinating. Meanwhile Doctor Velazquez said to the specialists, 'Wait and see, this case is unique, the one I told you about. He says he is already healed in his urethra and no longer needs the operation, which is scheduled. We'll wait for him to get rid of the liquid he has just taken; beyond that, the pre-op exams show nothing of importance, everything is normal.' I was thinking, 'The Lord also healed the terrible infection I had in my urinary system, which gave me awful pain, with my abdomen swollen, preventing me from walking or even moving without great difficulty.' After about two hours, I needed to pass urine, so I called the doctors. There is a bathroom in the consulting room and I urinated while the doctors watched me.  They commented that there was plenty of it, good pressure and other things I didn't understand. They told me to pass everything, to empty my bladder completely, then they took me to x-ray and took some pictures, which were not clear. They did a scan, which told them that there was nothing wrong, that my urinary system was now normal. I told them, 'Christ healed me.' They replied that this was a unique case, that I had great faith. The four operations scheduled were cancelled and I was given an appointment for February 11, 1999, for a check-up. I went to the hospital on that day and they tested everything, blood, urine, electrocardiogram, blood sugar, cholesterol, triglycerides, blood pressure, and additionally they checked my bowels. I was told that everything was normal, and they asked me to come back each month for a check-up. In addition, before the accident, I was taking Captopril 25 mg for blood pressure, but after the accident, I no longer had this problem. At present, I go every month to my check-up, and every time they see me better than the time before.

Beloved brethren, if we want to have Jesus in our heart, we have to open it to everyone.  We must be ready to make a place there for our worst enemy, and not to worry whether the Lord Jesus will prepare this place, as God performs a heart-transplant on us, taking the old heart out and giving us his own heart, a heart full of love.

We will have to strip our hearts naked before God, seek him in a way, which is keen and profound, because God will not give his precious treasures, nor the gift of love, to those who are content with being mediocre, superficial Christians. God expects us to be spiritual beings, ready to follow him wherever he may send us, whatever may happen. All of us need God to break down everything in us, which it does not please him to see in our lives; we must be ready for the Spirit of God to enter us. What we have done with the works of the flesh, so that from thenceforth the light of the love of God may shine through us, in such a way as to put the Enemy completely to flight.

But this requires of us a total submission to Him, surrendering everything to him and following him, taking the decision to say: 'Lord, break me in pieces and remake me as you want me to be.'

We must not fear death; rather we should fear life, since we do not know what awaits us tomorrow. We are sure that after death a celestial home awaits us that the Lord watches over us. Brothers, let us acknowledge that God is great and that only in those final moments before death do we realize, through Him, that however much glory, power and riches we have been able to lay up on this Earth, it all disappears before the supreme greatness of the Lord, and we surrender in his presence.

Therefore, dear brethren, we must love all people without exception, love them as we love ourselves.

We give love when we fulfill the great mission; since how will people believe in the love of God if they have not heard it spoken of? How can they hear of this love if nobody proclaims the message to them? What greater love, than to tell the world about the love of our Lord Jesus Christ?

I give this written testimony so that all the glory, honor and power might be to the unique and sufficient savior of the world, our Lord Jesus Christ.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  31-diciembre-1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  'fabricacion carga explosiva, (alarma temprana)con TNT y  Clorato de potasio'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'los medicos decian que mi cerebro no funcionaba, y esperaban que mi corazon dejara de latir para desconectarmen de las maquinas'  The detonation of a pound of high explosive (TNT).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my body in the Central Military Hospital, in the intensive care unit, with machinery, tubes and equipment keeping my body alive.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was taken into the future in the blink of an eye, without using any known means of transport.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel when I left, and I could see a light at the end, but I don't know how I got to that light, and when I returned I came down a tunnel of brilliant light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just one person at the beginning, only visible in shining silhouette, then afterwards many more, but I never saw their faces or features, they were very bright.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A strong light which dazzles, blinding one.  Then it cleared and left me seeing well.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     el lugar donde llegue el piso era brillante, no habia sol ni nubes pero era de dia, un clima muy rico, todo era como resirar paz, armonia, tranquilidad, no habian montañas, y parecia que uno flotaba, y se transportaba de un lugar a otro , como desapareciendo y apareciendo.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       They are indescribable.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Cristiano no constante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have taken more seriously and responsibly what our Lord Jesus came to teach us, and I try to be a worthy Christian.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Cristiano esperando la Gloriosa venida de Jesus

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have taken more seriously and responsibly what our Lord Jesus came to teach us, and I try to be a worthy Christian.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am a more human person. I treat everyone equally, without care for social or economic status.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings one has on arriving in this place are indescribable, one is at a loss for words to tell what one has lived through there.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When the Angel Gabriel told me I had to go back and I did not want to, until I heard the voice and asked if it was Jesus, and he said I had to go back, and I gave in.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In the churches and with work colleagues (Military Forces). Some said I was crazy, with fantastic notions, others that I was lying, while some believe, and try to be better people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I received healing. As the doctors said, my organs regenerated themselves and I saw the hand of God in everything which happened to me, such as when I saw the house where my children were, and where I had never been.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Many events which Gabriel showed me have happened, and others have not happened yet.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's a good questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miguel_rp_nde.html