{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miguel_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Miguel M Possible NDE 9607","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miguel M Possible NDE 9607  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Miguel M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						5175 Miguel M Possible NDE 9607  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description   

  I went to the emergency room from COVID.  I was kept under  sedation from 12/28/21 until 2/3/23.


    During that timeframe, I had an experience where I saw myself in an endless room. I was standing and facing a wall, which extended endlessly to the right and the left of me.    This wall was about 10 to 13 feet away and 10 feet high. The wall  did not have any color; it only reflected light that shown on it.    I turned my head to look behind me and  saw a rectangular opening  in the ground behind my feet.    

    I saw that a  long staircase zigzagged downward from that opening. In the far distance, the staircase ended up next to a little ball, like a golf ball. I knew it was planet Earth, and I remember feeling that envy, selfishness, greed, evil were flying there, and that goodness, innocence, were devoured.        

    Looking forward again, I saw walking  shadows to my left.  I knew that they were human beings like me. I could see the outline of their shadow  perfectly: their feet, body, arms, and head.  But within those outlines, everything was black. I could not see their face, eyes, or any details since it was all black.        

    I felt them thinking, 'What is this, what has happened to us? We are disoriented, confused.'    They didn't realize that they were all moving backwards and to my left, away from the wall.        The wall acted as  a boundary that forced them to choose a side. They could go  left to the dark side or right to the  luminous side. These shadow people zigzagged left towards the darkness.        The darkness  engulfed them, little by little, as they walked deeper into the darkness.        

    I didn't see demons, or angels. Nor did I hear anything. 

    To my right, it was the same, but the shadows moved away from the wall, and  towards the light that got more and more intense.        
    
    I noticed that about eight times more shadows chose the darkness rather than into the light.        

    I was not afraid, nor did I feel any pain. I was standing alone and not moving my feet.       I don't remember more. I don't know what day I had this experience; I was sedated for two months and a few days.        

    I know  I was over there.        

   Maybe Jacob's ladder was a myth, based on  the wall I saw.  I had never seen it in any previous NDE story that could have suggested this to me.        
    
    I feel like my life now is a gift, and am still trying to understand this experience.        
    
Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

    Date NDE Occurred:  Unknown
        
NDE Elements:       

    At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         COVID.  Other Medically irreversible situation; necrotic lungs, multiple organ failure.    I had been there since 12-28-2021, sedated due to COVID, intubated, with general organ failures.        

On 12-30-2021, my loved ones were called from the hospital, so as to say goodbye to me.        

I don’t know how, but I survived.        

    On 01-11-2022, they were called again to say goodbye to me. 'When this happens, there is no going back,' the doctor told them.        

They got depressed.        

    But Something intervened.        

    On 01-20-2022, the left lung  was necrotic, dead.        

    The right lung  was full of holes, with its alveoli turned hard: the holes had closed, and it worked.        

    Only thanks to that inexplicable improvement (They had said: "When this happens, there is no going back", on 01-11-2022), they were able to do a tracheotomy, give me more oxygen, and on the 3rd of February 2022, I woke up.        

Many tears, many, but only on 03-14-2022 I left the ICU, for another month, of rehabilitation.        

I don't know what saved my life. I say it with tears flowing, because I have always been a scientist.    

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant    

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The small and distant planet Earth, colorful, vain and insignificant before the universe.    

    What emotions did you feel during the experience?    Surprise, no trepidation, no fear, surprise. I felt that the shadows, which were already going to their side, did not know which side they were going to, but they shared their sense of, 'What is this? What has happened to us?'

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was the same., I was just surprised to be there to see  and feel the shadows.        

There was silence, but not a strange silence. It was like being in a cathedral, by myself, with no one 62 miles around - no people, no animals, no noise, but normal silence, nothing special.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the entire experience, I had the same state of consciousness. I was simply there, standing, on the infinite floor of that infinite one-story building, in the sky.        

I didn't move my feet, because I didn't want to. I felt surprised, and I wanted to see everything I could, before moving, and nothing blocked my view.        

I felt fully conscious, not like when I woke up from sedation, on 02-3-2022, when I had hallucinations of being not in Madrid, but in Marseille. But it was different, they told me that the strong drugs they put me on did that to keep me sedated and somewhat calm during the fight to the death that I waged against viruses and pathogens (opportunistic bacteria that brutally invaded me, as I later learned when I read the ICU report).    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning    There was not the slightest sense of annoyance at the passing time.        

I looked, and looked, from one side and the other, as much as I wanted.        

And I didn't move, because I didn't want to, I was surprised.    

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was the same. The left area of the wall was darkened by the darkness that reached it.        

To the right (I was standing in the center), it was lit by the glow projected by the light into which a few shadows went (without them knowing it; they had only made that decision, I don't know how they made their choice).        

It had no specific color, but was like smooth white plaster.        

What did have color was the small and distant planet at the end of the very long and giant staircase.        

It was like superb yellow, or Walt-Disney bluish. I even saw a plane like in the cartoons over there, and I felt that it was full of people with greed, vanity.    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same, I didn't hear anything, but simply because there were no sound sources.        

I didn't feel that anything or anyone was forbidding me or preventing me from listening; it was just that there were no sources of that type of information.    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No    

Did you see an unearthly light?       No       

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I have already told you, the room, flat, infinite, without a roof (Above there were no stars, only darkness to the left, and light to the right, always going from less to more intense, very, very gently).        

Room ended, in front of me, with a wall about 10 feet high; it did not have any limit to the right and left.        

It forced each shadow to choose; no, I didn't see anyone hit the wall, nor forces (angels, etc.) that made that decision.        

The decision was taken by the shadows themselves, but they did not know the decision they were making.        

I suppose that their conscience, if it knew their life, would be the decision-maker, rather than themselves.    

    What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, no trepidation, no fear, surprise. I felt that the shadows, which were already going to their side, did not know which side they were going to, but they shared their sense of: 'What is this? What has happened to us?'

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No         

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic       

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic       

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had never seen that. I had always been aware of the tunnel, the angels, the family members.        

But this, no, never.        

I saw it, there, only there.        

Has anyone experienced it too? I would like to know.    

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I see all this in a different way.        

I feel that there are beings out there, bad beings, that give us power down here, but not up there.        

And also, good beings who love us, and I don't know why they love us.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No       

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   If you mean see them during the experience itself, I did not see them.        

But when I woke up, immobile, naked, in the ICU bed, without knowing what would become of me, whether I would live, if I would die, (many died in my room and next to mine, they also died). Yes, I felt, I didn't see, but I felt something.        

The image of Jesus, smiling, saying my name, and offering me his hand.        

That's why, when I was able to connect with my children (after weeks of being awakened due to signs), I asked them to put it on my chest. The Our Father, sung in the original language of Jesus, Aramaic.        

They would put it on youtube, with their mobile phone, on my bare chest in the ICU bed.        

And I would feel something enter me, something that is not in the four forces of the universe (Electromagnetic, Weak or Strong Nuclear, Gravity).        

It was at the same time something made of energy, and something alive.        

And yes, I felt him, sorry if I call him Jesus, but I felt that he loved me, and I don't understand it.        

Damn you, I'm a scientist, damn it, why?    

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We all end up there, and our own conscience will judge us.    

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I felt fully aware, surprised, without fear. I felt that something had prepared that for those who die, but only that; I did not see any “god.”    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     What is decided before that wall is etched in our conscience, even though we try to repress it ourselves, with the script of our life down here.    

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No         

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I felt that this planet was hosting swarms of evil, sin, arrogance, vanity, devouring innocence, goodness.    

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     As I said, when I woke up and I grasped the bestiality of the biological warfare that destroyed me, I understood that something, something loved me, and I don't understand it, I don't understand it, I don't know how to say it.    

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     This is a phase, and the skullduggeries we engage in down here will have their consequences.        

And the noble deeds we do here, even if they are not even known, will have their consequences.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have already mentioned it: consciousness and full freedom.    

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Did they teach us how to explain this in school? Well, that’s why it's not easy.    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  My senses - sight, hearing - were perfect; my vision was very sharp, the outlines of shadows.        

Nothing blurry, unclear, no, it was just that I was there.        

I don't remember anyone taking me back down the stairs.        

At one point, I "stopped" being there, and returned to unconsciousness, until 2-3-2022, when I woke up in the ICU.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The surprise of seeing that, of seeing the shadows, of feeling them, of the immense ease with which they entered their paths - darkness or light. The surprise of the wall, the endless wall that forced them to choose; of the stairs; of the tiny planet, whose vanity was only comparable to its insignificance in the great universe around it.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After waking up in the ICU I was very scared, very scared about what would become of me, that I might never speak again or walk. That I might have to carry an oxygen cylinder for the rest of my life. I told my loved ones only once in rehab.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No       

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real         

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Lo he dicho, consciencia y libertad plena.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Why do you think that "something" acted and saved my life?        

Why does that “something” love me?        

Why did others next to me die the day I woke up in the ICU room?    Why?               b                			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miguel_m_possible_nde.html