{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miguel_nde.html","mytitle":"Miguel NDE 63","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miguel NDE 63  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Miguel NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						304  Miguel NDE  63  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Like I said above, I can't remember all the details, but I'll try to do my best.

I am a member of a family of ten. My older sister and I have always been real close to each other. We used to play very rough. One time, we were a little carried away during our games. She grabbed me from the neck and started to choke me until I passed out.

All of a sudden, I started to fall into a deep dark hole. I remember the wind blowing all over my body. As I went through, I saw a whirlpool of light, with a bright light at the end. Somehow, I knew if I go through the light, I won’t be able to return. I started to think about my brother, because at that time we shared the same bed, and he would be alone at night time. But the light still attracted me.

At this point, I heard my sister calling me, and I got into a bright white light and I felt a presence of somebody. I didn't see anyone, but I felt He was around me, full of love and joy, and I wanted to stay, but it wasn't my time yet, so I was sent back to my family.

I remember in the following days I felt a great sadness inside me. I still miss the place where I've been. I know that when my time comes, I'm going back.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Around 1968-69

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident     Kind of accident  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was fully conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was too young at that time, but I knew I was somewhere, in a place where time doesn't count.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I just felt the presence. I think it was God. I felt it inside and outside of me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     When my experience started, I felt I was falling down into a tunnel and then it turned into a whirlpool of light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     I didn't see anyone. I just felt the presence of someone around and inside me and I felt that it wasn't my time yet.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a light at the end of the tunnel and I got into the light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I got into the light and it was beautiful. I have no sense of the time. All I felt was love around me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      It was a mixture of emotions: melancholy, joy, love, sadness.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can't remember if this happened before my experience or after, but sometimes I dream about some events that lately have become reality.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     At the end of the tunnel, I saw the light, this is hard to explain. I knew if I went across, I would not come back, but I got into the light and I was sent back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What is your religion now?      I am a Catholic, but, at the time of my experience, I was getting confused about my beliefs.   I am catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion: 

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   But it is kind of confusing, and it’s been a long time since then. I can't remember all the details.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I dream about future events, but I don't remember if this happened before or after my experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I don't see any worst part in it, but the best thing is that I've been in a beautiful place.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They listen to me and they agree. There is a place we are going to after we die.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   In 1988, I had a terrible accident. I got burned real bad. I spent 1 month in the hospital, three weeks of it I was in the ICU. One time, I had to go to surgery, but the night before I was real nervous. I knew something was going to happen. Then in the middle of the night, I felt the presence. I don't want to say it was God, but I'm sure it was. He came to the side of my bed and put his hands on my chest, and I got the same feeling as when I went to the light, and I knew everything was going to be okay.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I don't have any suggestions. I just want to thank you for letting me share my experience with other people. Thanks again.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miguel_nde.html