{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mickey_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Mickey J NDE 20854","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mickey J NDE 20854  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mickey J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						639  Mickey J NDE  20854  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was wakeboarding and crossed the wake. I spun my board around to switch directions and I pushed the nose of the board down and face planted into the water. Instead of letting go of the rope automatically, I let go too late and the handle caught my forearm.  The boat dragged me about two feet through the water with my board pulling the other way.


What I thought was a vision passed through me.  I saw myself under water being dragged by the rope and my arm being pulled. It was only a brief episode and the rope finally came off my arm. It was like I was next to my body sitting in the water watching myself be dragged. Then I came up from the water. For a moment, I didn't know what had happened until I realized my arm was in great pain. I pulled myself together and realized where I was. I started screaming and my Dad came and dove into the water and pulled me onto the boat. I felt sick and weak. I felt like I was going to pass out.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    6/16/05

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It felt like it went on for hours but it was actually very brief.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There was a deep tone.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt like I could see and breathe underwater.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Fear.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It is hard for me to explain.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I saw myself in a hospital bed with nurses around me. I did not go to the hospital because my Dad is a doctor and he had his friend who is a doctor looked at me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Seeing myself under water. The worst part was realizing I had seen myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They were interested and concerned. They researched this site.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mickey_j_nde.html