{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1miguel_nde_2667.html","mytitle":"Miguel NDE 2667","mylang":"de"}
          	        Miguel NDE 2667  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Miguel NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						888  Miguel NDE  2667  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was a summer day in July or August, as I remember although I'm not sure. But I remember perfectly that I was seated at my office desk at work. I got up to go to the bathroom to pee and then returned and sat down again at my desk. Suddenly, I felt very hot and began to sweat a lot. I also began to feel faint and suddenly found myself dreaming (or at least that's how I remember it). It was as if I was in the country. Everything was green, the sun shining, like in spring. The temperature was very agreeable and the surroundings pure (referring to the air), there was no pollution which is why I think the colors were so alive, everything very clear, as if viewing a very sharply focused and clear movie in Technicolor. There were people, children I believe, but I'm not exactly sure. There was a group of people and I was with them, out in nature as if at a picnic. Everything was peaceful, without any kind of problem, only living in that moment. I don't know how long the dream (or whatever it was) lasted. I do know I felt really great, very good.

All of a sudden, it felt like I was being taken out of the dream, not by anyone in particular, as if I just came to once again. I didn't want to leave, it was a very pleasant dream. Then suddenly I found myself dripping with sweat, my whole body, as if I had been thrown in a swimming pool, completely dripping with sweat. Two fellow workers were there, slapping my face, and calling me by name, 'Miguel, Miguel...' I asked, 'What happened?' They told me, 'You passed out.' I asked them how long I had been out and they told me about four minutes. I answered, 'That's not possible.' To me it seemed like only a few seconds, but very intense.

Following this, I went to the doctor. He examined me and told me nothing was wrong with me, nothing abnormal, and that all was well. They ran some tests and such and everything was fine. I asked the doctor what happened to me and he said he didn't know but I probably fainted. I don't know. Perhaps that's what happened. What is certain, and I remember it to this day, was that it was very strange, fainting without reason, and a very pleasant dream as if I were watching a movie I was in, along with other people, although I don't remember who they were.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 verano 1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         ninguna circuntancia en especial estaba sentado en la mesa de mi trabajo empece a sudar y plas. me desmalle, segun me dijeron.  Other al parecer segun me dijo el medico fue una lipotimia, estaba sentado en el trabajo (funcionario del estado).  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I lived it intensely like when on vacation you only live in the moment. I thought it was my life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the dream I lived it intensely and happily. I thought it was my life and not the one I later returned to. I wanted to remain in the dream. I thought it was my life, not the one I returned to. It's a little complicated, but that's how it was.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     For me it was as though much time passed, many things happened, in just a few seconds. Nevertheless, according to my colleagues it lasted four or five minutes.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, colorful like seeing it on a big screen in Technicolor.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It wasn't a tunnel. It was as if I was drawn rapidly toward my body. It was as though they took me rapidly towards a dream, but just the opposite, towards my life. I certainly didn't want to return here. I thought that was my real life, not this one on earth.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a group of people, and some children I think. They were together, in the country, at some sort of meadow with green, colorful trees. I don't remember if I knew anyone. I don't think so. But I'm not sure.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     ese campo indescriptible, muy natural y muy real, pero precioso  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I lived happily in the moment, as if all were normal. I was there and lived happily. Now I would describe it as a very pleasant dream, which I didn't know was a dream. It was life itself.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I only remember not wanting to leave there. I felt really good, and I didn't like my real life so well. That dream, or whatever it was, impressed me. But I think because of its strangeness and realism.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I lived there and they wanted to bring me here to this life. And they did bring me here but no one in particular did it. I was drawn here.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   cristiano catolico.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I continue being a Christian and Catholic.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   cristiano catolico  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I continue being a Christian and Catholic.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Well, at times I ask myself if this place exists somewhere or was it only a dream - which is most probable, although a strange one.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was like a dream, very real, with very vivid, but natural, colors, with much light or rather much clarity.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Some very real dreams.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, significantly, it was like a dream but more than a dream. It was truly life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I lived it as if it were real because during the following days I thought about what had happened and I remembered it as something strange, but alive and real. I had the sensation that such a place exists, somewhere, and I have been there.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Strange, peculiar, without explanation, but very real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1miguel_nde_2667.html