{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mickie_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Mickie S NDE 2806","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mickie S NDE 2806  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mickie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1032  Mickie S NDE  2806  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  After four hundred and ninety-five kilometers on my bike, I had problems sitting in the saddle. I had to take a break, so the assistant could change the saddle. As long as I was sitting on the bike, I felt relatively well but I became dizzy when I dismounted. I told myself 'No big deal - I can't stand up, but that won't delay my cycling right now.'

Two people were present, one known and one unknown to me. They both said they would walk with me a bit until my saddle was changed. At that moment, I collapsed. I felt comfortable and warm, and saw myself lying on the pavement at the street. However, the street was not made of asphalt but of glass, with a bright light underneath. Actually, the whole street was light. Lateral to the street were bows of light, behind me. Before me, new bows of light came up.

Then it was as if someone woke me up. I thought, 'Please let me sleep.' A doctor was resuscitating me. I will never forget his face, how he shouted at me while pushing at my ribcage. I felt cold and realized where I was.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 16, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         'bei einer ultra-triathlon-veranstaltung (nach etwa 20 stunden radfahren, als ich eine kurze pause machen wollte)'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was just different, I cannot say.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I cannot say.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no more linear flow of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was dominated by this street of light. I saw myself lying there but I cannot remember the sharpness, while that was so SLIGHT.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot remember any sound; however the sounds during my resuscitation were very loud. (Maybe because people were panicking because they thought I had died.)  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Just the street of light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feelings of comfort, warmth - simply well.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   ohne bekenntnis  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   ohne bekenntnis  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I changed; I have a different outlook on life, more meaningful than before. Not everybody around me can accept this, and it changes my relationships accordingly.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I thought nobody would take me seriously.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told a friend of mine two or three weeks later. He didn't respond and changed the subject.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so clear, I had to think about it very often; no doubt that it was real. I had never before heard of an NDE, I had no idea what it was like or supposed to be like.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. It took me days before I could accept that I had been dead, and that the light was not just a dream. A conversation with the doctor who revived me helped a lot. One or two hours after the event, when I was lying in the hospital with an infusion, I asked for a few chocolate cakes so I could get back up and on my bike. I REALLY thought I was capable of riding! The cycling authority of course did not permit this. Up to now, I have not come to grips with the fact that I did not complete the race. I also suffer psychologically from the fact that my daughter and my friend ignore this important event of my life. They cannot accept that I'm a different person than before.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing comes to mind right now.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mickie_s_nde.html