{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mieke_nde.html","mytitle":"Mieke NDE 3593","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mieke NDE 3593  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mieke NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1621 Mieke NDE 3593  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					An acquaintance who was using drugs at the time flipped and turned on me. He put both his hands around my neck and started to strangle me. I tried to fight him as best as I could but I couldn't prevent him pushing me backwards He pushed me into a closet.

At a certain point I 'went', I saw myself 'leave' and then everything went black.

Then all of a sudden, there was light on the left and darkness on the right. A pleasant male voice asked, 'Mieke, do you choose the light or do you choose the darkness?' I said, 'I choose the light.' Then it seemed the light filled my body and it went through me into the boy who was strangling me. He let me go at once and apologized. Even since that time he has a certain respect for me and we still see each other. (He is off the drugs has a home, has had an education and is no longer a thief.) The fact that we both experienced this makes it extra special for me. We talked about it a couple of times.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  ergens in 2002?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  relationeel geweld  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was being strangled.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I had to choose I seriously thought about it for a short moment.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I even gave it serious consideration when I had to choose, for a very brief moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It could have been a long while I didn't have any sense of time. It was probably a short time for how much time does it take to say that you choose the light? A few seconds?

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     But I only saw black and white - light and darkness - like a kind of circle split in the middle (black and white) but too big to see it as a circle.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing has always been excellent. I wasn't aware of contact lenses or glasses.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It didn't feel like it but it was dark around me I looked at light and darkness so it is possible.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I only heard a voice asking me a question.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I had the choice between light and darkness so yes I saw light - clear white light that didn't hurt your eyes or anything - just light and darkness. The darkness wasn't 'flat' it wasn't every day 'black'.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     niet bewust, was gewoon daar waar ik was....

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A sort of 'beautiful' feeling and peace and tranquility. It was as it was and felt good not scary, it was 'normal'. I was a bit surprised - I mean the voice and the mentioning of my name. I thought it was special and normal at the same time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'ik geloof in energie, officeel oud katholiek gedoopt'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     It has confirmed something but not really changed anything - it has become surer. I know that I know something, but what it is that I know I don't know, something like that.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'ik geloof in energie, en dat liefde, licht is...'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     It has confirmed something but not really changed anything - it has become surer. I know that I know something, but what it is that I know I don't know, something like that.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowing what choosing between light and darkness is.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes With the person who caused it - he has never touched me again. And sometimes he thanks God that he ever met me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     No idea - I've always been 'different' but if it's worse I don't know.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, it confirms that I'm never really alone and what I think and feel about 'the other side', it is there but WHAT it is I haven't the faintest idea!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away with the 'strangler', he felt something flow through his arm which made him let me go. Still he knows that it must have been something special. Later on I told other people about it (as a story).

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Because the other person felt it too and because of what happened afterwards - I wasn't the only one noticing or experiencing anything so I wasn't crazy - and it seemed so normal, the most normal thing in the world but special and nice.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That it seemed so surprisingly 'normal' and that it has taken away the feelings about the strangulation or made that less important. I haven't really thought about it but in fact strangulation isn't peanuts - oops.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, I think there should be more on the form. I have experienced more with light etc. but this time it's all about this one experience. It is a lot of work to fill out this form. But it's great that it is here!! Thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mieke_nde.html