{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michelle_jk_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michelle JK Probable NDE 22411","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michelle JK Probable NDE 22411  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michelle JK Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2545 Michelle JK Probable NDE 22411  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember flying out of my bedroom window. My mum told me that I fell, hitting my head on the rose bed and my body on concrete. I don't remember going to hospital, but I remember that I was looking down at myself. The room was lemon yellow; a chair was at the bottom right of the room. My bed was near the door to the left, I was looking at me from the top left corner of the room, ceiling height. I remember vividly that there was a toy monkey with plastic facial features, looked realistic and scary, but I have no phobia of monkeys to date. I recall looking down at my physical body, motionless in bed and stare at myself for at least two minutes or so. Then shortly afterwards my eyes opened and I looked around the room and everything was exactly the same. I didn't feel anything weird, I didn't feel scared, I was little and unsure what to make of it. I have told anyone about this apart from my husband.  

I had a few nightmares a year after the event, but that was due to me sneakily watching a Tarzan film that had natives with scary masks, and imagined I saw a skull with spikes in the corner of my bedroom and believing that it was pulling my bedcovers. I screamed and ran to mum and dad’s bed. I don't know if that is relevant.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident.  Jumped out of the window thinking I was Batman   I think I was in a coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I feel that my outer body was a little older than my body lying in bed, certainly not the same age.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely out of it, in a coma state.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noises. It was deathly quiet and surreal.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was not awake, but in my virtual world it was very vivid and I felt strong and in control.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have felt that trusting your instincts has helped me avoid situations that could have put me in a fatal situation.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Always to keep an open mind to everything that is around you, even the unexplained.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Only to trust your instincts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt weird looking down at myself and not understanding the situation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My Husband and daughter. My Husband believes in this type of thing, my daughter however isn't so much and brushes it aside.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   1987 Zeebrugge Ferry Disaster, my husband and I were meant to be on this ship that day it went down, but my husband’s grandfather passed away and we didn't go.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't think I would be scared if it happened again.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You could double up some of the questions. It does seem to be a little long winded! Apart from that, you have got it all covered.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michelle_jk_probable_nde.html