{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_p_probable_ndes.html","mytitle":"Michelle P Probable NDEs 6748","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michelle P Probable NDEs 6748  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michelle P Probable NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDEs  			3360 Michelle P Probable NDEs 6748  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have never been sick in 52 years. On March 9, 2011, I came down with what I thought was the flu. Since I had never had the flu, I had no clue what it was like. By March 12, I could not walk, eat or think, so I went to the emergency room. They did blood work and found out I had MRSA and C-diff. The MRSA is fatal. Within an hour, I was in cardiac heart failure. Within 2 days, I had a test to show the MRSA was in the heart eating it away. I was transferred from the hospital to a hospital in Boston, because the first hospital stated there was nothing more they could do and I had a zero percent chance of making it. I was not able to make the ambulance ride to Boston.  I was transferred to Boston. On March 17th, they took me off all meds and started from scratch since they are a teaching hospital.

I stopped breathing, as they were bagging me and helping me breathe, I could see everyone around me, many doctors, nurses, and I felt at peace. When I woke up, I was told I was very, very sick and they had to get the infection under control before they could do open-heart surgery. I had surgery march 28th. During surgery I felt my dead father's presence, I felt at peace, and I knew I would be ok. The thought that I had was that my father wanted me to be ok to take care of my mom. Even though my mom hates me, I still feel she will need me at some point. After surgery, within 12 hours I was up and sitting in a chair and home within 2 weeks. I also had 16 strokes during all this before surgery and have no repercussions from them. It has been 2 years and I am still ok, not even a cold. I have a different outlook on life since this, like nothing bothers me anymore. My family was so sure I was going to die they got me to sign over all my assets to them the day before surgery. Even though I was in a coma, and a medical coma I knew everything going on, I heard everything and things still are coming back to me 2 years later. I have two pig valves and the rest of my heart was reconstructed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  march 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had stopped breathing and the doctors bagged me for 45 minutes. My family was called at 3am to say I was going and/or would be dead shortly

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I had no pain and time went by fast. I was there about 19 days and it felt like a day.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very little time. I had a breathing tube in from March 9 to March 27

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard most everything.  I heard the doctor yelling at the nurse for more morphine then again he said, '2 more mg. of morphine'.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father who died 6 years ago. I had not seen him for 5 years prior.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, serenity. Every one cared and loved me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I live by gods will even though I do not want to sometimes and I know god has a plan for me in the future. He did not keep me here for any reason.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in karma now

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I  try to live by gods will now. I am the best person I know how to be. I forgive people and do not hold resentments.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am nicer to people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   it comes to my mind all the day almost daily

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People that were there with me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience. It comes to my mind all the day almost daily.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_p_probable_ndes.html