{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michelle_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michelle J Probable NDE 3835","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michelle J Probable NDE 3835  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michelle J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1803 Michelle J Probable NDE 3835  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was living with my parents at the time (failed marriage - tried to re-establish myself financially). I had just arrived home from my evening workout and noticed that the growth on my collarbone had increased in size. It was very uncomfortable!!! I knew that I would have to sleep on four pillows in order to get a good night's rest. I woke up during the night struggling to breathe - I also remember the pain in my collarbone - it was extremely uncomfortable.

Suddenly, I had floated upwards to the area of the ceiling in my room that was located near the bedroom window. I looked down and could see my body!!! Of course, I had no idea what had just happened, but I noticed a black figure laying over me - I immediately thought that this figure was directly connected to the reason why I had gravitated to the ceiling - at that point - I knew that the figure was death. Suddenly, the room became literally black - the blackness was so deep that it could be cut with a knife. I was afraid of the blackness - and there appeared to be a presence in the blackness that made my hair stand up on my head!!! At that time, I was still thinking in terms of having a body.

Suddenly, I began to call out the name of Jesus - very softly - it almost sounded musical - it was very sweet. Then without warning, I began to see what had appeared to be a 'pin-like' hole that appeared very, very bright! It began to burn into the blackness until the darkness was gone! It was life-like. I found myself in a life-like light that was beyond brilliance. There are no words that can fully articulate the light, except it was light that I had seen for the very first time. Only, you not only seen the light, you had become a part of the light. I began to look for my hands and feet but there was nothing! Then I noticed there was a presence there with me that was so familiar. I had known this presence forever - or so it seemed. The presence knew me. The light could have consumed me, but no harm came to me. There was pure love in the light. I was at peace and my mind was totally opened in receiving whatever the presence in the light had to give. I totally trusted the presence (God) because I had remembered the light, for some reason. It was awesome! There was a sound in the light. It was very faint but also soothing. The Presence in the light (God) began to communicate telepathically to my mind and I was permitted to respond telepathically, even though He had already known what my response would be. I was given the question, if I would like to return. I thought about it and then I began to think about my parents and how 'freaked' they would be if they were to discovery my body in bed. So, I opted to return, but I asked if I could remember the experience - without notice, I was suddenly back into my body.

It was as if I had gone through a vacuum and was sucked back into my body. It was beyond time or speed. One just could not measure it because it was beyond any earthly thing. After that experience, I became depressed because I wanted to return. I have had other experiences since then, but I can say that my life was totally transformed. I was healed, received supernatural abilities involving knowledge and had a sudden hunger for knowledge. Even now, I'm in school and also teaching in Church. I'm working on a book. In the meantime, when I have those experiences, I try to write them down. Sometimes, it really is hard to articulate, besides, who would ever believe that these experiences continue.

I also share my experience with the light with people who are hopeless and full of despair.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'I had completed my workout at the gym. I noticed that the growth on my collarbone had enlarged to the point where it became a little uncomfortable to breath.  Previously, the doctor explained that the growth was actually tissue that had been injured, so  Other 'I had a growth on my collar bone that was very close to my windpipe (not sure of the clinical term).  At that time, I noticed that whenever I worked out - this growth would get even larger.  Whenever this would occur, I had to sleep on at least four pill  There was a growth on my collarbone that had grown to the point where it blocked my air passage (windpipe) causing it very difficult to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was in the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of altered space or time. I'm not sure if time speed up or that I was outside the realm of time/space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not certain that I can articulate - I have seen the colors of the rainbow actually dance! I was not having an out of body experience. I was sitting at my desk, I looked into a piece of glass that reflected the rainbow, and the colors were alive! They actually danced as if to a melody that I could not hear. It was as if I were given an open-eyed vision of a world beyond our present day world.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I'm not sure if it was a tunnel. All I know is that my environment changed and it appeared very black. It could have been a tunnel - but there was a presence in that darkness that made me uncomfortable!

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     There was only one presence in the light and I knew him. We communicated telepathically. I'm discovering that some of the things that were communicated in the Light are actually happening in my life today.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light is true life. I became a part of the light!!! I was healed in body, soul and spirit. The brightness of the light was the life that was the light. You see, I still have difficulty explaining the light. I was not afraid - because I knew the Presence, which was the light. I had true peace, joy and happiness. I received the gift of knowledge in the light and other gifts that I do not quite understand even to this present time.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was very afraid, until I saw the light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I am aware of events before they actually happen. Sometimes it is frightening! My husband thinks I'm nuts and other people think that I am quite unusual.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian/ Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I do not wish to share this information. I'm saving it for my book. Incidentally, there was no sense of universe - I did feel harmony/unity and peace with the universe when I returned, also, there is a gradual understanding that is becoming known - as if memories from the experience are being clarified through my search for knowledge.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time of the experience, I had just become a 'born-again' Christian. Actually, I had nothing to compare the experience with, so it made it very hard to articulate. So, I attempt to write it down.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No parts - the whole experience was meaningful. It was beyond the human ability to comprehend - which is the reason why when explaining it - it sometimes sounds foreign. You cannot choose a part of the experience because it all happened as one total experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. I shared the experience with my mother and it freaked her out. Later, I did some research and found that this type of experience has happened to others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I experienced the Light when I was a little girl about twelve years old.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew the experience was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It would take much too long to explain. I'm late - I have to teach Bible study to the New Members at my church.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   No medications or substances, just life happening.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I continue to experience the divine.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michelle_j_probable_nde.html