{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_c_nde_9505.html","mytitle":"Michele C NDE 9505","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michele C NDE 9505  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michele C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5118 Michele C NDE 9505  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I experienced my soul leaving my body. I was in an absolute state of serenity, never before felt on earth. I distinctly saw my body and all my loved ones, or rather the ones who were part of my nuclear family. I had the gift of being everywhere at once. I saw my mother, my grandmother and my sister, all in despair. I would have liked to tell them to not worry since I was feeling wonderful. At the same time, I saw my father at work. He was being advised by someone running beside the ambulance. I saw my father who ran and left his briefcase on the stairs as he rushed into the medical unit. I saw the doctor who shot me with a needle in my veins. As soon as the medicine went into my system, I reentered my body and later woke up in the hospital after several hours. 

After coming to consciousness, I recounted everything and when I described the specifics including how the medical office looked, which I had not ever seen before, and the fact that I saw my father leave his briefcase on the stairs, my parents were astounded. Since then I understand that death is a rebirth in a different dimension.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1973  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my father who was at work.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was aware of everything and could see all at once, even my father.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes, I was conscious and alert  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Totally different. I felt an absolute well-being and didn't need anything.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything clearly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     No I did not know what could happen after our earthly life.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I live more peacefully  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     It was an experience.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I am conscious that something exists that is different from our earthly life.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel more peace when it comes to death, or better said, the life that comes after our earthly life.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They have deepened  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  A unique experience.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am often able to know events that are about to happen in my life.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I look at life with more peace  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I speak often about it with people I meet  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Peacefully  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     In a meaningful way  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_c_nde_9505.html