{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michelle_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Michelle H NDE 4377","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michelle H NDE 4377  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michelle H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2171 Michelle H NDE 4377  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving to work. Not speeding. In an instant, the truck was on its side sliding along the soft dirt shoulder of the road. My vision simply faded to black like in the old movies. All sound stopped. There was no feeling in my body. It was dark. I was not in a body. I was AWARE I was in the dark. I was aware that I was observing and actually thinking. I thought, 'Huh, that's it huh.' I experienced only a moment of fear before I faded back into a body full of pain.

There was a witness to the accident. He said that it was like watching an invisible kid play with a toy. The truck lifted straight up, turned side-ways and slammed into the driver's side. The truck slid along, and then flipped twice across to the other side of the road. Then it flipped over from back to front until it was upright. He didn't think I was alive he said.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Fluid build-up in the brain and broken neck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   From the beginning to the end.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the beginning to the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time except before I was in the dark.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I knew I was in the dark, in what I know to be a void. I was aware of my being there without a body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing loud or soft, no sound but awareness of thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None really, as if I were a just an observer.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It solidified my experience that God did not have my best interest at heart - if he has a heart. I had a visitation by an angel in the first twenty-four hours after the accident and although comforted by it, on the other hand, I was hurt and felt unfairly abused.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   NONE

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It solidified my experience that God did not have my best interest at heart - if he has a heart. I had a visitation by an angel in the first twenty-four hours after the accident and although comforted by it, on the other hand, I was hurt and felt unfairly abused.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   In a way, I considered there was no order or purpose.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am closer to my husband and mother but distrustful of anyone else. I am more resentful and avoid people when I can.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That it was so fast. That the experience itself led me to the idea that in fact, the dark was all there is with no God or heaven or light or meaning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with a few people. Their reaction was mostly disbelief or just pondering.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had ushered a woman out of her body once. She was very light when I picked her up to give CPR but once I told her I couldn't help her and it was okay to go home, her body was too heavy for me to even budge.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Angry. Afraid. Hurt. Despair.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still suffer physically from the accident so it is a reminder daily what I had lost before the accident and what I have lost since then. The experiences during the first twenty-four hours only confused me and I felt resentful, unfairly chastised and doubted a God had no particular interest in helping me as a person. I am still ambivalent.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It took from me more than it gave - just as life does no matter how kind and loving in intent.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Be more open to the many of us of whom the experience has done nothing particularly good for their lives.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michelle_h_nde.html