{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Michele M NDE 6378","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michele M NDE 6378  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michele M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3120 Michele M NDE 6378  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was skipping Study Hall and was going to a friend’s house, so I left the building out a back door that had a long 'drive-way’ to the parking lot. I then ‘heard’: ‘Run, Marilyn is going to have her baby’, so I ran down the long driveway. At the bottom I stopped and looked to my left, no cars then went to the yellow-line.  Looked to my right, no cars, I proceeded to the curb, where I felt a hit to my hip. 

I think I opened my eyes, and there I saw a Yellow hourglass figure that came around me, and I closed my eyes.  When I opened them again, I saw nothing but clouds and the bluest of blue skies, I asked (maybe telepathically), ‘am I in Heaven’. I didn't see anyone. I don't know how soon after I said that, I heard ‘Michele’ But I didn't know what a ‘Michele’ was, I couldn't rationalize nor did I try, I was in such a peaceful state of mind. After that, I heard screaming, and I thought telepathically, ‘Who is that screaming?’ 

Then I opened my eyes and I was back in my body surrounded by traffic that authorities had stopped, and my foster mother (currently deceased) asking me, ‘What happened?’  The medical personnel diagnosed my ankle, and took me to the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Oct 21, 1971'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Unsure how to answer  as I was hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I looked straight ahead, but I did ask ‘about heaven’.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt more at peace, and love, and being in Joy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I guess when I saw the yellow light, and the endless clouds, and endless blue skies.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I cannot explain it; I thought I was speaking things, but maybe not. I still cannot find out who was calling me, I never looked around.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The blue skies where s-o-o-o-o blue, the white clouds where endless, and I was so at peace I wanted to stay there forever.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't rationalize with this experience, as I could in every day. I would speak telepathically not with words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I SAW a Yellow light surround me in the fashion of an hourglass, like coming around my body.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was like an angel, but it was a yellow light that enveloped me and when I opened my eyes again, I was in a different place.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw clouds and the bluest of blue skies.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, elation, freedom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I must have come to a barrier I was not allowed to cross, I never thought of it that way.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I found it hypcritical, and boring.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   Spiritual

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Catholism, when I was young at that time, taught that God is a judgmental being, and when I was there, I encountered a place of Love, and Light....nothing judgmental...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not to fear Death. The Bible verse: ‘in my house there are many mansions’ ‘I go to prepare a place for you’.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice that called ‘Michele’, but I didn't know what a Michele was, and then the screaming.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   Why not?

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   That there is a world beyond this and we will go there, everyone goes there.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Maybe, that my mother is ok, as she predeased me and she is in a better place....although I neer saw her

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     In my experience, and doing this questionaire I realized that I encountered a barrier, that I was not allowed to cross, and I was sent back....

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel I have come as far as I can in this earthly life.  I am ready to ‘go home’ anytime.  My family is all gone, and my child has made his own family, and doesn't have time, so I wouldn't be missed. My friends are few and far between.  I long for that beautiful place of which I already know. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I don't have any friends; people think I have lost touch with reality.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I told everyone but my family didn't believe in that stuff and dismissed me (foster family)

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I am surprised that I still remember it after 40 years....It coincides with my nephews birthday as he was born 3 days after this....

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     In 1990, when I visited my mother’s grave after a family Wedding Anniversary: she came to the bottom of my bed and stated ‘I'm alright, leave me alone’. So I didn't return to her grave for another 10 years.  Then she sent me a dream where I was traveling down a well-known road and 6 -10 years later I had a car.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe that my mother was showing me where she was because I was worried about if she was okay.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I couldn't talk about things like this to my foster family.  I was verbally and emotionally abused.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had After Death Communications with my foster father, he has told me about certain friends that have passed over. He wanted me to look up certain names, and when I did, their family members told me that person had a heart attack two months ago and died.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am surprised that I still remember it after 40 years. It coincides with my nephew’s birthday as he was born 3 days after this. Catholicism, when I was young at that time, taught that God is a judgmental being, and when I was there, I encountered a place of Love, and Light: nothing judgmental. In my experience, and doing this questionnaire I realized that I encountered a barrier, that I was not allowed to cross, and I was sent back.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_m_nde.html