{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Michele W NDE 2042\/484","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michele W NDE 2042/484  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michele W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1279 Michele W NDE 2042/484  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description 2042:   

  				   					  #484  Previously submitted 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11-14-98  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   car accident  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   can not describe  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Shortly after the accident, before EMS arrived and again shortly after arriving at hospital.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I had no thought about time, but it seemed like there was no such thing at the time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clearer vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Able to more easily hear some sounds than others. Voices seemed far away, but sounds of hospital equipment was easier to hear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, contentment.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings (emotional)  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of complete peace. I had never felt it before, and never again since. But recalling it from memory is reassuring at times.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Do not recall, maybe a year.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Had heard of it, seen it on TV (shows like In Search of...., Unexplained Mysteries, etc.) No effect on my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     If I experienced it, then it was real to me and that is all that counts. No one else's opinion of it matters at all.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     If I experienced it, then it was real to me and that is all that counts. No one else's opinion of it matters at all.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Bringing up in memory does not give the same feeling, but it does bring reassurance.  I know that after death is pleasant, and peace does exist somewhere)  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Add question: Do you think you have remembered the whole experience or do you feel you lost some memory of it upon waking from it? I myself feel most of my experience has been lost to me once I woke from it, though there are some parts I will never forget.

  		Experience Description 484:   

I saw the other vehicle hit and was conscious long enough to hear my ex-husband say that my 9 day old daughter was dead. (She was not) After that, I felt that I was outside of my own body. I was not dead and I knew that.  But I felt no pain and no worry. It was like I was assured by someone unseen by me, that even though I was hearing the EMT's say that I was not going to make it, that I was going to make it. It was like a thought in my head, but it was not my own. I was in total darkness with a weightless sensation. 

I was flown by helicopter to the trauma center and during the flight I felt like I was half in and half out of my body. Once I was in the emergency room of the hospital, I felt further from my body. 

I remember looking at myself when they were trying to get my family's phone number.  At first, I was more than 4 feet from my body, towards my feet and above the heads of the staff.  As my body was trying to remember the number, I got closer to myself, as if I was whispering it in my own ear. Sometimes, I was there with my physical body.  Other times I was floating in the darkness (maybe I did not want to see what was going on). I do not remember seeing my body after they got the phone number from me. I floated in the darkness with my own thoughts for a few days, and then I woke up in my own body.   

Background Information:     

Gender:	 Female
  
Date NDE Occurred:	  11-14-1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Auto accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not have any form apart from my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       For some parts I was conscious, but for most I think I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space was endless; there was no sense of time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt a presence other than my own, but I do not know who it was. It communicated to me that everything would be ok.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I vaguely remember passing over a large body of water either at dawn or dusk, just before waking up.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace. No worries, no pain.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I had the sense that my daughter was not dead and I would survive.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The degree of being at peace is difficult to express to someone who has not experienced it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was that during a time when one would assume I would have unbearable pain, I was completely pain free. The worst part was when the experience ended.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_w_nde.html