{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michelle_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Michelle Other 192\/10093","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michelle Other 192/10093  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Michelle B Possible NDE And Other  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE/Other  						10093/2799  Michelle B Possible NDE  192  					  				  			        			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description 12/23/2002:   

It was strange, I never thought of it as  NDE until I read some articles. Couple of things happened to me - a possible NDE and a deja vu.

I was involved in a 'hit and run' accident. While my car was being bounced around, I was trying to gain control of my steering wheel. The moment I gave up trying to gain control, and my car went spinning, I suddenly had the image of myself all drenched in blood and dead. I felt horrified and very distressed. I remember thinking just before that, 'gosh, this is how I am going to die!'. Suddenly my car came to a halt, and I did the weirdest thing possible - I put my brake on 'park'.   			      

And then it seemed like a deja vu experience - I remember somehow seeing this - that I would be in a car accident, by myself, and that my car would halt finally, and that I would very CALMLY put my brake in 'park'. I still was very shaken, looked down at myself to see if I was covered in blood, had broken bones, was immobilized. I was very happy and relieved and surprised to see that I was alive, no blood, just an injured knee. I don't remember screaming AT ALL.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 03/11/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   No, but a few weeks prior, I was very down, for no reason at all. That day before I left home, I was very sad.  While driving, just before the accident, I did not turn my radio on.  This is very unusual for me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't really know. Now it is all a daze to me.It was traumatizing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think the point where I thought that that was how I was going to lose my life.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I could see my body, as if I wasn't in it, from some other point/place at a higher level.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know; my car was hitting the wall separating the high way, and it seemed taller than it normally appears to be. That's all.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Horror, despair, and sadness. Also some form of resignation towards the end, although initial I was fighting very hard to stay alive.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   practicing Catholic.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am even more thankful to God.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   My faith is still as strong, if not stronger.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am even more thankful to God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Yes, people who were there for me and who understood what I went through, are closer to my heart. People who are insensitive to what it meant to me, how it has scarred me, do not have the special place that they did before.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I don't understand what it is. Especially the deja vu that was so very clear to me. I experience a lot of that, but nothing with that much clarity.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was a miracle. I have a rosary in my car, and I know I was saved by Our Lady/Jesus. I was very peaceful and calm when I realized I was safe.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the deja vu only. They understood, as some of them do experience it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was very traumatized. It still hits me every now and again. The thought that I could have died is unnerving.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember the feeling of terror -as if I could see it on my face at that time.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     


  Experience Description 4/22/2002:   

		It was rainy outside in the late summer of 1980. I was 12 years old. My family and I had gone to the river. The rain quit but it was still cloudy and a bit chilly. We were all swimming in an inlet of the river that was about 20 feet wide by about 15 feet in towards the bank. It was only about 5-6 feet deep in the deepest area. 

I was swimming across and was caught in an undertow. I was under the water for some time, trying to make my way to the surface and I could feel myself dying. I saw a very bright light appear in my eyesight. I was warmed and I felt comfortable. Then a large hand reached down through the light and pulled me up out of the water. That happen to be my older sister. She told me she couldn't find me and was searching the water with her hand.  All of a sudden, I was there. I know I felt very sad. I looked for the sun in the sky but it wasn't there. I was confused by this.

Background Information:   

Gender:    Female  

NDE Elements:   

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Drowning  Clinical death I was drowning  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe full  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard nothingness.  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No       

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   a VERY bright light  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      fearful yet calm.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:   

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No  It hasn't  

After the NDE:   

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was knowing that things don't end here. The worst was coming back and the confusion it caused me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They had no reaction in most cases, others didn't believe me. None were influenced.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michelle_b_possible_nde.html