{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_nde.html","mytitle":"Michele NDE 4705","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michele NDE 4705  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michele NDE  			          			                       						Home  						Classification NDE  			2381 Michele NDE 4705  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I did not pass through tunnels or spirals. I awoke in a forest by a stream. My first understanding was that I was dead and my body not with me. Although it would be a natural reaction for me to wince or be afraid, I was not afraid in any way. I knew I was in heaven - I was in a forest location on one side of a river. I welcomed the ideal temperature although I knew my body would only recognize this - it was comparable to a baby in utero, naked, a perfect body temperature. I kept thinking that temperature does not matter and wondered why I kept noticing it. I then understood complete peace in its purest form. There are no words to describe heavenly peace. I was free and abundant, naturally absorbing.

As I looked to my right, in a higher plane I saw a city. It was not in clouds but higher. The cathedrals were in Mideast fashion with a light blue dome with gold circling the top. They were numerous. I was aware of the presence in soul of my grandmother, grandfather, best friend. They were joyful, and unlimited in their understanding of my presence. They were happy to see me - acknowledged my presence from a distance in the city of domes. I wanted to see their bodies, as I knew them. However, I knew their soul and recognized them through their light's expression. There were objects of light passing in between, fleeting, quickly, they thought and they were. There was music, but not in the way I know music. The only way to describe it was the beat vibration of a higher a muted hum that resonated. I came to know that there are many different vibrations of afterlife. All are 'good' just different depending on how you lived your earth life.

Telepathically, I was being filled with information and intuition that I uncover every day. Things that I inherently, know from soul recognition but read here or see there expands my knowledge base instantly. Maybe a memory that comes to life on its own with a cue. A Light appeared. Beautiful, memorizing light that draws you to it, into it, with it. You realize you are of it. The light was not virgin white but honey virgin white; I hungered for its presence to be connected to mine. I crossed the river, as I understood I should from this light. There were no voices. Imprints are a good word for how communication was done. Although I knew this was Jesus not God - I didn't understand why Jesus stood out specifically at this time. There at this time was so much telepathically happening an infusion of not voices but knowledge, maybe information is a better word. There was no sense of time or anything concrete just exclusivity with the light. I knew he had this with 'everyone' and I wondered how. It told me that we are extensions of His light each of us connected through goodness. It mattered how consistent you were in your belief and how you showed that in your life that mattered - not what religion you chose. God is one in all. I understood that we take our soul, which includes pieces of our personality when we pass. Our light reflects in heaven to the degree in which we loved on earth. The way we love passes with us to the afterlife.

I asked the Light to please let me stay - with all of my soul I wanted to stay. It relayed this question, 'What about your children?' I replied, ' They will be fine.' I could not believe my thought. Nothing could ever part me from my children. I would reject any idea that was not with them every day. And yet, there was no hesitation in my response or thought. In that moment, I was slipping into heaviness and became aware that I was not staying but on my way back to my body. I could feel heavy not only in thought but in the weight the closer I went from the light the heavier everything became. It hurt actually.

To this day, I am filled with guilt at my immediate response. I awoke somewhere in the hospital with ports and tubes circumventing my body. There was a stationary-cross displayed on the television. Time is very slow here I realized. Things I see are in slow motion after this experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 3rd or 4th 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Childbirth. Allergic reaction  I was 34 weeks pregnant when my appendix ruptured: septic shock set in. No one knew why I was so sick. They thought perhaps blood cancer. The baby went into distress and they induced me. Delivered baby.(Somehow. It was a miracle) My seizures and shock con  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'What I thought was early labor with my third child was actually my appendix rupturing. I was given trabutaline (sp?) to stop ''labor'' and I reacted in congestive heart failure. The Ct scans did not show an appendix so it was not considered early on as a  Ruptured appendix, congestive heart failure. Childbirth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I crossed the river to come into the light. I saw the city after I crossed and became aware of related family and friends. I felt a part of the Light. He also chose what He gave me. I know this as far as information and imprinting.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was made aware that there is no time there. I equated it in my descriptions of vibration movement, quicker there, I saw movement but there was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The things I now watch or see move in slow motion. Sometimes they stop for a brief moment. I felt the earthquake in Thailand sitting at my dining room table. I felt my chair rocking and acknowledged to my guests that there was an earthquake in Colorado. No one else felt it - but they all called the next day after the tsunami. I see through people I generally know how their personalities are made. My everything is different - Senses, logic etc.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I hear some kind of noise hum but not what was there. Loudness bothers me now, silence has noise vibrating, and this sound makes sense to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I passed over a river. Not my body, so whatever I am there. I stood on one side and looked across then willed myself there to the other side and I was relocated. The light was waiting for me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Not Beings, I recognized souls of people I knew although for a time I saw them as physical humans I was compensating in an earthly way which dissolved and went away to be just recognition. They knew of my presence but were not welcoming me to this place. On earth when we walk in a room, we are drawn to embrace and say hello, so that is my comparison to their 'behavior'. That's a weird question, they are not really beings, but my mind initially wanted to recognize them that way, I did then that slipped away.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The most beauty my eyes could take in. That is until I realized my eyes weren't there. So my soul eyes saw home beckoning with unmistakable yearning. Temperature was a very real part of it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     described above

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The first and most overwhelming was that of complete peace. That in turn illuminated joy - I have to say happiness could not describe it - joy would be better. It was strange to become awake and know I was dead. I wanted to be terrified but never ever felt anything but peace in being home.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I see people. Sometimes I can feel an outcome of situations through people but not on my own. Actually, I'm not sure that I felt the earthquake. I threw up the entire week of World Trade Center bombing as I knew or understood something was globally happening. I don't know how to answer this.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I crossed a river, the light on the other side I knew desired that. I don't know how or why. It wasn't really about crossing the river which was all done without body, very cool, it was more about being drawn into the light, a natural response in its presence?

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     God is of all. He is higher than religion. He is belief in good. He is the purest light in love.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     God is of all. He is higher than religion. He is belief in good. He is the purest light in love.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My intuition skills are sharp. I have a connectedness with movement and why people react/respond to their environment. I see people walk in a room and see their faces dead, ugh, or the complications or feelings they are facing. I'm not sure I can explain it. Sometimes if I meditate or intensely focus, I feel as if I can steer an outcome. My mind is very strong.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I recently became divorced. I take the world in on a soul level versus a personality level. That adjustment came without my approval or disapproval. It changed me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It wasn't difficult. It was grabbing language that someone could understand that was not understandable. Death mystifies people. Our whole life is lived with the idea we die, people respond to that differently.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I read people. I see earth's time. Sometimes the slowness makes me feel nauseated.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The temperature, feeling of what we call peace and the weight of being sent back - actually I can't break it apart - it was all interconnected. I came to understand through thought only the Holy Trinity - an innate instinct of soul.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my doctors and my family. They don't take any of it seriously so I turned off any conversation or knowledge shortly after that.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Zero - did not know it existed as even a possibility.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was positive this experience was real. I had no question then or now. The detail around that has never diminished or quieted. There is most certainly a God. He is exactly what everyone thinks in accordance to a specific religion or belief but much more encompassing of all. A thread through each body, every belief that circles through each of us infinitely. Again in Himself perfect to each believer and every religion belief, each a spark of light, one of each other. What matters is how we believe consistently, passionately, and how our hearts meet and love one another.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has never changed from my previous answer. I just notice when I focus that my instincts and senses are heightened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Not reproduced. I carried a lot of guilt I think because of my response in staying in Heaven. I felt guilty that I was so quick to leave my duties as a mother to my children. I don't dream anymore. I participate on a different level in what I think are visions. One vision included lying in an adobe jail. The floor was dirt, crying because I felt like the essence of me was in prison with my experience. The Lord Jesus appeared to me in His light and relayed the following: 'Go now my child be free.' He conveyed precisely when to leave as there were people guarding this prison I was in.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can't answer #19 - I saw light- there were no words only imprints and telepathy, no figure just a circular light. In the middle of the perfect circle that radiated out into fragments of still perfect light but not shape.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_nde.html