{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael W NDE 4864","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael W NDE 4864  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2470 Michael W NDE 4864  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was ten years old crossing a street heading home for dinner from a friend's house. It was around 6:00 pm Eastern Standard Time on 12/9/1970. A car (Ford LTD) was heading east bound on state route 161 in the north end of Columbus, Ohio. The driver had been drinking alcoholic beverages; my mom said she could smell it on the driver's breath. At the time of the accident I was carrying a wallet so the people that came to help me found my address and was able to find my house a get my parents to the accident site.

My NDE experience started the moment the car hit me! As soon as I was hit, I remember going to a dark place, darker than a room without windows and no door or light. The room was darker than I could have ever imagined. Then I remember coming to in the intensive care unit for a moment. 

The next NDE experience I remember was looking down on my body and seeing several hospital staff personnel rushing in to work on me. At that point, I remember leaving the building and heading up into the sky. I remember looking back at the hospital.  Then I was heading into the light. When I came out of my coma, I remember telling people that the light was as bright as the Sun but it did not harm my eyes. While I was heading in the direction of the light, I was told that it was not my time and I returned to my body. The voice that told me that I had to return to my body I just knew was Jesus Christ. I did not see him I just knew.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/9/1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Hit by Car that ran a red light doing 60 miles per hour and ran me over in a cross walk.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was hit by a car doing sixty miles per hour.  The impact broke half the bones in my body and caused several internal injuries.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As soon as I left my body in the hospital.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I left my body in the hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light was as bright as the Sun but it did not harm my eyes. I could look directly at the light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I remember going into a very dark place, and I remember going into the light, so I don't know if you would call it a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Not that I can remember, just the voice of Jesus.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Saw the light. As bright as the Sun but it did not harm my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I jusr new I left this plain or dimensions!

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Maybe because I was only ten years of age.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None I was a child

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I don't remember, it happened nearly forty years ago.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I know that I have become a risk taker and very outgoing. I was not before I was in the accident.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A few times I saw some deceased people. I saw my mom in my parent's house the day of her funeral. The people that purchased my parent's home nine years later had to have the house cleansed to drive my mom's sprit out of the house. She was haunting the new people that moved into the house.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Going to the light. You just knew once you made it you would never want to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost as soon as I came out of my comma.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Never heard of NDE or really knew anything about life after death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was a child so either it was real or not real. I knew it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You just know.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       None.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_w_nde.html