{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 8012","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n6_jul_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N6 July 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. VI.] [.JUJ.V, 1884.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR. PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Meetings of Council. . 89
Life Members and Asoooiates 110
Elections, June 80th and July 15th, 1884 .. 91
Generalllleeting . . . . . . . . .. . . 92
Growth of the Society . . . . . . . . . . 93
PAGE
Specimens of the CLuisillcati"n of Cases
for" Phantasms of the Living." III. 114
A New Ally of Art .. . . .. .. .. .. 103
Correspondence .. .. .. .. . . .. 104
Donations to Special Fund .. .. .. .. 106
Supplementary Librar)' Catalogue . . .. 107
==========~~==================-
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
A Council Meeting was held on June the :30th, Professor Balfour
Stewart in the chair, when Professor Barrett, the Rev. W. Stainton
Moses, Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey,
F. W. H. Myers, Edward R. Pease, Frank Podmore, Henry A. Smith,
and J. Herbert Stack were present.
After the minutes of the previous meeting had been read, fifteen
uew Members and Associates were elected, whose names and addresses
are given on another page.
Before the close of the meeting, on the proposition of Mr. F. Pod-
more, Mr. Owen Morgan, of Pontypridd, South Wales, was elected an
Honorary Associate in recognition of the services which he has rendered
to the Literary Committee.
Several presentations to the library were announced, especially 'a
valuable contribution of books and pamphlets from the Rev. W.
Whitear. The particulars are given, with the names of the donors-
to whom a vote of thanks was recorded-in the Supplementary
Library Catalogue.
A donation of .£25 to the Research Fund was announced from Mr.
F. W. H. Myers, for which the Council passed a vote of thanks.
At the conclusion of other routine business, the meeting was made
Special for the purpose of considering certain alterations in the "Con·
stitution and Rules," of which notice had been given in the required
form.
After discussion, the following two alterations were unanimously
agreed to:-
L That in Rule 4 two clauses be added thus :-
(1) In the second line of sectioll (a), following the word "annually,"
"or a sillgle payment of 20 guinea!!," and
Digitized by Google
90 Jo'Urnol of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1884.
(2) In the second line of st'ction (b), following the word" anmlally,"
"or a single payment of 10 guineaR."
II. That Rule 8 stand thus :-
8.-The Council may invite any person who.
(i) is either distinguished for knowledge or experience in Psychical
Research or otherwise eminent, to become an Honorary Member
of the Society; or any person who
(ii) has rendered services to the Society,
to become an HOllorary Associate, such person to be eligible for
re-election annually.
Honorary Members and Associates shall have the privileges without the
obligations attaching to .Associates.
An additional meeting of the Council was held on July the 15th,
Professor Barrett in the chair. There were present Messrs. W. R.
Brown, E. Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, E. R. Pease, and F. Podmore.
Lord Tennyson was elected an Honorary Member.
The Hon. Mrs. Montgomery Moore, of Dublin, was elected an
Honorary Associate.
Seven new Members and AssociateP were also elected, whose names
and addresses are given on another page.
A donation of .£10 to the Research Fund from the Rev. W. Whitear
was acknowledged with thanks.
LIFE MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
It will be noticed that in accordance with an addition made to the
Constitution and Rules at a Special Council Meeting held on the 30th
ult., the Members and Associates of the Society, present and future,
can pay a composition sum of 20 guineas and 10 guineas respectively,
instead of an annual subscription, and can thus become Life Members
and Life Associates. In the case of persons who avail themselves of
this rule, a subscription paid for the current year will be considered as
forming part of such composition payment. The money thus received
will be invested, and will form a permanent fund.
Digitized by Google
·July, 1884.] Jo'Urnal Of Society /0'1' PsYchiCal ResearCh.
ELECTIONS, JUNE 30!J'H AND JULY 15TH, 1884.
HONORARY MEMBER.
TENNYSON, LORD, Farringford, Freshwater, Isle of Wight.
MEMBERS.
BERNARD, MISS A. F., Girton College, Cambridge.
FRY, LEWIS GEORGE, Goldney House, Clifton, Bristol.
HENNIKER-MAJoR, THE HON. MARY, 6, Grafton Street, London, W.
HOGG, H., M.A., New University Club, St. James's, London, S.W.
JEUNE, -MRS., 37, Wimpole Street, London, W.
NEVILL, E. A., 13, Bryanston Street, Portman Square, London, W.
RoGERSON, GEORGE RUSSELL, F.R.A.S., F.R.G.S., Calderstone Road,
Allerton, Liverpool.
SH..O\RPE, FREDERICK WILLIAM, 12, Abbey Square, Chester.
TopHAM, LIEUT.-COLONEL SIR WILLIAM, Weybridge Heath, Weybridge.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
MOORE, HON. MRS. MONTGOMERY, Royal Barracks, Dublin.
MORGAN, OWEN, Pontypridd, South Wales.
ASSOCIATES.
BERESFORD, EDWARD A., 21, Hereford Square, London, S.W.
CALDECOTT, REV. ALFRED, M.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
COUES, PROFESSOR ELLIOTT, Smithsonian Institution, Washington.
U.S.A.
Cox, JOHN, M.A., Cavendish College, Cambridge.
DARLEY, MRS., Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
JEBB, MISS C., Girton College, Cambridge.
MILNES, GEORGE HUTCHINSON, M.R.C.S., L.R.C. P., Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge.
MORRIS, MISS E., 13, Park Street, Park Lane, London, W.
SCHOLEFIELD, REV. C. C., M.A., Eton College, Windsor.
SHOOBRIDGE, LEoNAnD, K. H., Albury House, Ware, Herts.
SIDEBOTHAM, E. J., Caius College, Cambridge.
SlIITH,REv. CANUN TRAVERS, B.D., St. Bartholtlml'w's Vicarage, Dublin.
TuCKER, MISS MILDRED A. R., 4, \ :xford and Cambridge Mansions,
London, N.W.
N.B.-Members and AsBOCiates are requested to send information of any ohange
of address to the Assistant Secretary. 14. Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W.
Digitized by Google
JO'IJII"TIAd of Society fur Psychwl Research. [July, IBN.
GENERAL MEETING.
The Ninth General Meeting of this Society was held at the Garden
Mansion, Queen Anne's Mansions, S.W., on Monday, June 30th. Pro-
feasor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., one of the Vice-Presidents of the Society,
took the chair at 8.30 p.m. In his opening address, after referring to
the heavy loss which the Society had sustained in the death of Dr.
Angus Smith, F.R.S., he proceeded as follows :-
Being myself engaged in physical science, I should like to make a single
remark on that part of our programme which refers to the production of
peculiar physical phenomena. I know that the investigations in this direc-
tion, upon which several members of this Society are engaged, have not
yet been developed sufficiently to be brought before us for discussion, but
my remark is of a general nature, and can in no way prejudice that which
is now going on.
Those who have discussed the subject of what I will call free will, may
be divided into two classes or schools.
Firat. The Materialistic, embracing those who believe that all acts of
will, all desires and aspiratiolls of the Ego are the results of certain material
transformations in the brain. which transformations take place according to
-ordinarily-understood physical laws.
Secondly. The Spiritualistic school, or those who believe that something
in the Ego is theoretically 1\8 well 1\8 practically above ordinary matter, and
is the cause rather than the effect of certain changes in the brain. It is
rather of the Spiritualistic school, as above defined, I would now speak. I
,cannot, of course, tell how this school will view evidence tending to prove a
peculiar action of mind upon matter, but I think I can tell how they ought
to view it. Believing, as they do, that something in the Ego is theoretically
as well 1\8 practically above matter, they must believe that to a greater or
less extent the usually received physical axioms are broken by it. That is
to say, they have been driven, it may be by ethical and metaphysical views,
into an assertion with reference to physics, which they nevertheless believe
to be quite unsupported by physical evidence. Surely, then, they ought,
.above all others, to welcome observations tending to shew that there may
pOBBibly be an action of mind over matter in other regions than that of the
brain.
For my own part, while I do not dispute the truth of the position held
by the advocates of what I call free will, I yet acknowledge the difficulty of
its being held permanently 1\8 a single isolated exception, incapable of
verification. Exceptions are not dead units, but have a family life of their
,own, with their own peculiar traditions and places of resort, and just as the
naturalist who has got hold of a unique beetle goes next day to the same
hunting ground in the hope that he may obtain its fellow, so J am prepared
to maintain should the investigator, who thinks he has discovered, no matter
how, an undoubted exception, explore the most likely places for its fellow,
which, if there be truth in his position, he is almost certain, sooner or later,
to secure.
Digitized by Google
July, 1884.] Jou'M'Ull of Society for P8ychical &search. 93
Professor Oliver J. Lodge then gave a very interesting account of
some recent experiments with Mr. Malcolm Guthrie's "subjects" at
Liverpool, expressing himself as completely convinced of the thorough
genuineness of the results. The most interesting experiment was one
mwhich two different diagrams had been placed before two" agents,"
neither of whom knew what the other was looking at; and the impres-
~ion made on the "percipient" was a combination of the two.
Professor Barrett made some remarks in which he reminded those
present of the distinction between genuine Thought-transference, where
the idea is impressed without contact or movement, and the "muscle-
reading" of public exhibitions.
Mr. J.. Herbert Stack followed with a further report on some of
the remarkable phenomena which have been recently vouched for by
members of the Theosophical Society.
He concluded by acknowledging the kindness and cordiality with
which the evidence had been given, pointing out at the same time the
various difficulties in the way of obtaining proofs which can be regarded
as scientifically conclusive.
[The evidence has been taken down in shorthand, and will be
.shortly issued in a separate form.]
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then read the latter part of the Fourth Report
of the Literary Committee, on "A Theory of Apparitious." The two
reports which deal with this subject will appear in the course of a few
.days in Part VI. of the Proceedings.
In a few concluding words, the Chairman pointed out that if the
Society's work is not "pure moonshine" it contains the germ of a
generalisation which, when complete, will approve itself as the largest
ADd most important ever made.
GROWTH OF THE SOCIETY.
It ma.y be interesting to our readers to know that the Society now
~onsists of:-
Members ... 192
Associates ... 185
Honorary Members 6
Corresponding Members... 5
Honorary Associates 16
Vice-Presidents, who are not otherwise Members 2
Total ... 406
Digitized by Google
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
III.
Our last paper brought us to the limit of mere 'Vague impressions
of death, &c.,-to the threshold, that is to say, of distinct sensory
halluciMtion, corresponding with some objective event.
It is not quite easy to arrange these cases of subtle approximation
to distinctness of sensory impression in a continuous logical chain. We
might, for instance, begin with the cases where the percipient feels a
diffused physical malaise or sense of undefined illness, while the agent
is dying at a distance from him. But it is perhaps better to take first.
a case where the quasi-percept is very definite &s far as it goes, but goes
a very short way; suggests, that is to say, an almost impalpable and
indescribable thing, the mere sense of a certain person's presence in
the room.
Most people are familiar with the feeling that someone is in the room.
the person being sometimes identified and sometimes only felt as a
living presence. Now, in most cases we must explain this feeling by
unnoticed sensations of hearing; a sound of breathing, for instance.
being sub-consciously noted. But it is, of course, conceivable that some
subtler means of information may exist, especially between persons in
close rapport. Lovers, for instance, frequently assert that they can
detect the presence of the beloved one in a room, without ocular survey.
And without pressing the analogy of the power of recognition possessed
by dogs, &c. (in \Yhom this may depend on guidance afforded by a sense
which the lovers do not possess), we may at any rate appeal to the-
well-attested cases where a mesmeric subject is aware of the proximity
of the unseen operator. Judging from this mesmeric analogy we-
should certainly expect that the sense of a recognised presence would
be a form which telepathic impact might readily assume.
And in fact we have a few cases where this sense of the nearness of
an absent person is all that the percipient has to note.
We begin with a case which strongly impressed the percipient, (the-
wife of a clergyman), as a unique experience, though its evidential
value is much weakened by the facts that Mrs. Wilson did not mention
the feeling before the news of the death came, and that she also knew-
that the percipient was ill.
From Mrs. Catherine Wilson.
Many years ago I awoke suddenly in the middle of the night, as it
appeared to me, with a distinct impression of a certain person. Next morn-
ing, early, I was informed that she had died during the night. Though it
did not occur tp me t9 fix the time of awaking, yet I felt compelled to admit.
Digitized by Google
.,July, 1884.] J01Jh"TI,O,l ofSociety for Psychical &search. 95
[i.e., as afterwards explained, felt it strikingly probable] that the death
coincided with my impression. The poor woman had been ill of cancer in
the village where 1.was staying, and I had visited her at times, at the re-
quest of my aunts. I had thought little about her, the visit over, and
certainly never dreamed of her. I am not a believer in dreams, or rather,
do not encourage attention to them, and I am in no sense credulous of the
supernatural. The vividness of the impression I refer to ill as strong to-day
as it was the moment it happened, aud I do not think it will ever be eft'aced
from my memory.
This must have occurred between the years 1851 and 1858. I was a
sound sleeper at the time, rarely awaking through the night. I certainly
never had such an impression of a person's presence as the one J wrote
about, either before or since. But for the death followiug, I could have
attached no meaning to it.
In this case the feeling is only that the dying person is in the room.
In our next case the imagined presence comes somewhat closer, and
seems to be close to the percipient's side. The lady who writes the fol-
lowing account is known to Professor Sidgwick.
-The following narrative was told to me by my aunt, Mrs. B. j the son to
whom it relates is F. G. B., who fell at Inkerman on Sunday, November
5th,1854. The narrative was told to me on Sunday afternoon, September
2nd, 1883, and written down at the time. She had told me substantially
the same narrative many years before, though she did not like talking of it.
My son, who was also present when the story was told, read over my account,
and pronounced it correct. J do not believe that my aunt ever experienced
any similar impression. I have known her intimately all my life, and stayed
with her for months together, and never heard her mention anything of the
kind.
E. E. G.
-" She had always prayed that she might know at the moment if he were
killed or badly wounded. The 5th November was a Sunday j she was at
R. Church, and early in the service (while kneeling in the Confession) she
had a sudden sensation j she saw nothing, but felt sure something was by
her, and that it was her son. Her husband asked her what was the matter,
but she kept up, and did not leave the church. On returning home she
Haid she was sure they would hear bad news. When the news did arrive,
some days later, they found he was shot at the very hour when she felt his
presence in R. Church."
Cases like these may be conceived as presenting a first approach to
& tactile hallucination. Some other similarly transitional cases, where
there is a somewhat vague sensation of pressure, will be met with
under other classes.
The approaches to auditory hallucination are of quite as gradual a
kind. And first comes a curious group ofinward impressions, sometimes
remaining as the mere conception of articulate sounds, sometimes irre-
sistibly prompting the percipient to speech of his own. These cases of
Digitized by Google
96 ·Jmtrnal of Society for PsychiCal Research. [July, 18M.
course, remind us of some forms of merely morbid hallucinations-in
which inward voices and irrepressible utterances playa large part.
Resemblances like these are, of course, precisely what we expect.
It would be strange indeed if all the effects of the telepathic impact
on the percipient's organism were conspicuously different from all other
effects produced on that organism by all other influences, from without
orfrom within it. Our hitherto unrecognised cause has remained 80 long
without recognition just because the effects which it produces have
enough resemblance to the effects produced by other causes to admit of
being confounded with them. Our business now is to supply canons for
the detection of the differences of causation, not to assert that the dif-
ferences are so obvious that no such canons are needed.
Speaking broadly, then, we should say that whatsoever mental or
sensory phenomena are observed in the organism under normal circum-
stances, the same phenomena are liable to be produced delusively in
morbid hallucinations, and veridically-with a message of objective truth
in them-:-in telepathic hallucinations.
The state of the organism under telepathic excitement is neither
normal nor morbid'; its sensations, that is to say, deliver a message
which they are meant or constructed to deliver; but that message is so
Jlnusual that its meaning is not readily interpreted by the central intel-
ligence. The telepathic percipient is like the blind man who, in the
first moment of sight, "sees men as trees walking"; and it is not often
that the same percipient has a sufficient number of telepathic percep-
tions in the course of his life to be able to recognise and interpret them
with anything like the same certainty with which he interprets the facts
ofordinary experience. We shall see, however, at a later stage in our
inquiries, that this difficulty arising from unfamiliarity is mer~ly a
matter of degree. and sometimes to a great extent disappears; that is
to say, while the repetition of mlYTbid hallucinations confirms the per-
cipient in error, the repetition of telepathic hallucinations renders the
percipient more prompt at eliciting their objective and provable message
of truth.
We must not, on the other hand, be taken as asserting that the truth
or falsehood of the message conveyed is the ooly difference between the
morbid and the veridical hallucination.
Amongst morbid hallucinations we find that there are special types
which accompany each form of nervous disorder: special delusions
belonging to alcoholism, opium-poisoning, general ·paralysis, &c. And
the delusions of dream-land are still more markedly disparate from all
these. Now the dreamer's state, like that of the telepathic percipient,
·is neither morbid nor precisely normal; his perceptions are hallucinatory
as far as they go-; but they hallucinate a fragment only of the dreamer's
Digitized by Google
July, 1884.] Journal Of Society for Psychical Research~ . 97
intelligence: he wakes and knows that it was a dream. Telepathy may .
be taken as a third point in the triangle,-as an impulse whose object is
to impress on the mind some fact not obvious to the ordinary senses,
and which for this purpose is obliged to use sometimes the machinery of
dream and sometimes of hallucination.
Thus much as regards the general parallelism to be anticipated
between telepathic and morbid hallucinations. In the present instance,
however, the phenomenon observed hardly amounts to a hallucination; it
is nothing more than a kind of "trick of memory" or unbidden recur-
rence of the same train of thought in a jaded brain, which would seem to
have afforded the easiest channel for the telepathic current to traverse.
From" A Memoir of C. Mayne Young, with Extracts from his Son's
Journal, by the Rev. Julian C. Young," rector of limington (Macmillan and
Co. 1871), pp. 337-340.
J. C. Young's Journal.
"1851, November 13th. Being exhausted in body and unhinged in
mind by many nights' unremitting attendance on a relative who had been
dangerously ill, my doctor insisted on my relinquishing my post to another
and going elsewhere for change of scene and air. As my invalid was con-
valescent I went to Brighton to pass a few days with my father, who was
then residing in the Old Steyne.
"I arrived at his door on Tuesday, llth, in the evening, and retired
early to bed, sanguine that after so many sleepless vigils, I should enjoy a
night of unbroken rest. I have always been blessed with a remarkable
talent for sleep. . . . . I was therefore the more surprised on this
occasion to find myself, within a couple of hOllrs after I had retired, wide
awake. I fancy this must have been about half-past II, because half-an-hour
after I heard the clock on the stairs strike 12. I ought to mention that. at
night, in certain conditions of health, I have sometimes suffered from a mor-
bid activity of memory utterly destructive of sleep or even tranquillity. At
such times I have been governed by one prevailing idea, which I have been
unable to shake off, or been haunted by snatches of old airs, or harassed
by the reiteration of one text of Scripture, and one only. It was not long
a.go that after having drunk some very strong coffee, I lay awake· for three
hours repeating, in spite of myself, over and over again, the following,
words from St. Peter's First Epistle, 'Whom having not seen, ye love; in
Whom, though now ye see Him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy un-
speakable and full of glory.' By no exerCise or ingenuity could I get rid of
these wordl:!. . . . Well, it was under some such mental impression that,
on waking on Monday night last, I was possessed, as it were, by
four mystic word!!, each of one syllable, conveying no more idea to my mind
than if they were gibberish, and yet delivered with as much solemnity of
tone, deliberation of manner, and pertinacity of sequence, as if they were
meant to convey to me some momentous intimation. They were all the
more exciting that they were unintelligible and apparently could not serve
any ostensible purpose. They were accompanied by no vision. They were
. an audition and nothing more. I could not exclude them by putting
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1884.
cotton wool in my ears, for they came from within and not from without.
To try to supplant them by encourap;ing a fresh train of ideu was hopel_ ;
my will and my reason were alike subeervient to some irresistible occult
force. The words which beset me· were 'dowd,' 'swell,' 'pull,' 'court,'
and they were separaten as I have written them into monosyllables, and
were repeated with an incisive distinctness and monotonous precision which
was quite maddening. I sat up in my bed and struck a light to make
sure that I was awake, and not dreaming. .All the while were reiterated, as
if in a circle, the same wild words.
" 'Dowd,' 'swell,' 'pull,' 'court.' I lay down again and put out my
candle: 'dowd,' 'swell,' 'pull,' 'court.' I turned on my left side, 'dowd,'
'swell,' 'pull,' 'court.' I turned on my right, 'dowd,' , swell,' 'pull,' 'court.'
I endeavoured as a means of dispersing th.se evil spirits-for they began to
aB8ume the importance of spirits in my heated brain - to count
sheep over a stile, but still' dowd,' 'swell,' , pull,' , court,' rang in my ears
and reverberated through my mind. I counted my respirations; I had
recourse to every imaginable conceit by which to woo sleep. I tried to call to
mind all the people I cared for, then all the people I disliked. I tried to con-
jure up the recollection of all the murders or sensational incidents I had ever
read or heard of in the hope of diverting my thoughts-but in vain. I then
began to analyse the meaning of the words themselves. ' What,' said I to
myself, 'can be the meaning of "dowd " 1 Ah, I begin to discern the truth;
I am trying to make sense out of nonsense. The painful scenes I have lately
witnessed have upset the balance of my brain, and I am going mad.' I bad
not pursued this melancholy train of reflections long, when I fell into a pro-
found slumber, from which I was only aroused by my father's voice
summoning me to breakfast. On his asking me how I had slept, I told him
how curiously I had been disturbed in the night. My narrative inspired
him with more of ridicule than of pity. About mid·day I paid a visit
to the MiB8es Smith, daughters of the late Horace Smith. I found
Frederick Robertson, then in the zenith of his well-deserved fame, sitting
with them.
"After a while the conversation turned to Herr von Reichenbach's book,
and hi8 theory on the subject of Odic Force, and then to the philosophy of
dreams. . . . I repeated to them with avidity my nocturnal experience ;
but instead of its producing the effect I had expected on my auditors it
only provoked an interchange of significant looks between them, which
convinced me that, in Oriental phrase, I had been eating dirt. I soon
rose and took my leave. • . . Robertson • . . followed me, and
when we reached the doorstep . . . perceiving that my vanity had
been mortified . . . said,' My dear Young, I hope you will forgive
me if I say that I never before heard you tell anything so pointless as
what you have just repeated to the Miss Smiths and myself.'
"'Ah,' said I, 'I perceived you thought so, but it does not alter my opiuion.
To me the whole thing is frau~ht with interest and mystery. I am sure
that thereby hangs a tale indeed. I only wish I knew it.'
" It was on Wednesday, the 12th, that these words passed between my
friend, Frederick Robertson, and myself On Thursday, the 13th, I walked
Digitized by Coog
July, 1884.] JOU'1"1tal of Society for Psychical Research~. 99
into Folthorp's Library to read the papers; and, as usual, rail my eye down
the births, marriages, and deaths in the Tima. As I came to the obituary the
following notice caught my sight :-
" 'On Tuesday night, November 11th, John E. Dowdswell, of Pull Court,
Tewkesbury." So that probably, on the self-same night, at the very time
when this gentleman's lIame and residence were 80 unaccountably and pain-
fully present to my mind, he was actually dying." *
Mr. Young's experience, then, (although to himself it appeared
wholly bizarre and unintelligible), is precisely of a kind which we
should a priori have expected to encounter. As regards the proba-
bility of its having been in reality a psychical incident the reader must
judge for himself. We cannot in this case (as we can in so many
others), claim that the coincidence is made absolutely cogent by the
'l.llniqueness of the experience in question, for Mr. Young had felt on
other occasions other words similarly reverberated through his brain.
And although he could attach no meaning to the syllables, "Dowd,"
"swell," &c., it is of course conceivable that he may have uncon-
sciously heard the name already, and that its resurgence in his brain at
the time of its owner's death may have been due to chance alone. On
. the other hand we have the deep impression made on himself at the
time, as evidenced by the interview with the Misses Smith, who have
personally confirmed to me the accuracy of his account of it.
A remaining difficulty in the narrative, the fact that Mr. Young
was a stranger to Mr. Dowdeswell (though the Misses Smith were
.slightly acquainted with him) may be better discussed after we have
cited another instance of somewhat the same kind.
From Mr. Gervase Marson, Birk Crag, Higher Broughton, Manchester.
December 6th, 1883.
On the morning of December 6th, 1879, I suddenly awoke, and sat up in
the bed, as if startled. To my great surprise I found myself uttering the words,
"Portland," " Portland." The next day I read in tbe papers of the death of
the Duke of Portland, which I believe took place about the time when I was
involuntarily uttering his name.
I cannot account for this experience at all. No conversation respecting
the Duke of Portland had taken place the evening previously; I did not
know he was ill; Dever saw him iu my life; had never been at any of his
residences; and, in fact, neither kuew nor caredanytbing about him. I was not
-dreaming just before I awoke, but believe I was sleeping, 8S is my wont,
.quite soundly. G. MARSON.
Now in this case the modus operandi seems much the same as in
the last. The automatic utterance of the words at the moment of
sudden waking seems to imply an escape of current along a particular
. * I have looked up the '1'iIITUlJI, and on November 13th. 1851, find in the obituary
-column :-" On Tuesday, 11th inst., at Pull Court, Worcestershire, John Edmund
Dowdeawell, Esq., aged'1D."-C.B.
Digitized by Google
100 Journal of Society /01' Psychical Research. [July, 1.884. .
verbal track, very similar to that which prompted a mere inaudible
repetition of the dominant syllables. On this occasion the name was,
of course, already known, but, on the other hand, the experience seems
to have been unique.
We note here, as in the last case, that the dying person was un-
known to the percipient. We cannot, however, regard this as a
decisive objection to the theory of a telepathic commun~cation
between the two minds. We know too little, at pre,sent, of the
laws of such communication to take for granted that we can
predict its detection in any given case. The rapport which
we assume to be acquired is at present a mysterions link, not clearly
referable either to kinship or to affection. If we are to trust the
analogy of mesmeric cases, it would appear that a few minutes, or
even a few seconds, may suffice to establish a rapport between a
mesmeriser and a previously unknown subject, strong enough to over-
ride for the time all other ties, whether of blood or friendship. In
80me cases mesmeriser and subject have apparently quite as little in
common as the dying Duke and Mr. Marson.
Nor, again, is it necessary to suppose that the impulse in all cases
proceeds from the dying man himself. Sometimes we seem able
to trace it to some other person. Sometimes there would seem to be a
kind of diffused disturbance, or psychic storm, not necessarily due to
the action of one mind alone. It is possible that some effect of this
80rt may sometimes accompany the death of persons on whom many
thoughts are fixed. Of course this very direction of men's thoughts to
the great man who is dying predisposes both to hallucination at the
time and to legend afterwards. But in this case of "Portland, Port·
land," (and there are others like it), the percipient took no interest in
the Duke and knew nothing about his illness. All that can be said is
that there was probably more excitement amongst the bystanders at the
Duke's death than is commonly the case at the death of persons of less
wealth and lower rank, and that it is conceivable that this diffused emo-
tion may have reached a sleeping mind which happened to be in a
condition receptive of telepathic impressions.
In the next case which we shall cite the connection between ageut;.
and percipient is a close one; so close, indeed, as to suggest a difficulty
of a just opposite kind from the last. For if on the Qne hand the
Duke of Portland was so remote from Mr. Marson as to make it hard
to understand their telepathic connection, so on the other hand the !Jon
in this next case was so often in his mother's thoughts that it may seem
as though the utterance of his name needed no telepathic explanation,
t1!3pecially as the coincidence with death was not exact.
Against this must be set the deep impression which was made. on
Digitized by GoogIe
.July, 1884.] J0'U7-nal of Society fCYl' Psychical Research. 101
the mother's mind, as proved by the noting of the hour and the imme·
diate mention of the fact. And the incident is precisely such as we
should expect to occur as a result of telepathic impact. The uncon-
scious cerebration which finds vent in the utterance of the beloved name
is just such as a disturbance propagated by the son's mind at death
might, on our theory, originate in his mother's brain.
From Mrs. X.
Two years ago my son was ill in Dnrban, Natal. I was told by his
medical attendant, who is also my son-in-law, that the illness was BerioU8, but
I had no reason to suppose it was expected to end fatally. Of course I, his
mother, was anxious; but there came better accounts, and at last a letter
from my SOil himself. He spoke of being really stronger, expressed regret at
his enforced long silence, and added he hoped now to write regularly again_
The load was lifted from my mind, and I remarked I felt happier than I had
done for months. At this time I too was ill, and had a trained nurse with
me. A few nights after the receipt of the letter, I thought I had been lyillg
awake, and requiring to call my nurse who was in my room, I sat up in bed
and called loudly" Edward, Edward." I was roused by nurse answering,
"I fear, ma'am, your son will not be able to come to you." I tried to laugb
it off, but a chill struck to my heart. I noted the hour, 3.40 on Sunday
morning. Without mentioning my fears, I recounted the incident to my
daughters, but I looked for the bad news to come, and on Monday received
th.e cable message" Edward died last night." Subsequent letters named the
hour as being identical with that in which I had involuntarily sent forth my
cry for my loved one. His sister, Mrs. C., in writing to me, said, "Ob'!
mother, his one crave was for you, and to the last moment the yearning he
had for you seemed to dwell in his eyes." I may add we were more than
even mother and son usually ate to one another. I believe in that one
moment our souls were permitted to meet, and I thank God for the memory
of that hour.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. X. says that her son had had delicate health,
and" for years I used to get up through the night and listen to his breathing,
and lived in tbe constant apprehension of learning sudden bad news if he were
out of my sight." She adds, "No doubt I was t.hinking of him, but not pain-
fully, for I had had his letter, and I thought he was getting well. It cer-
tainly was not a dream-I sat up in bed to call my nurse, when to my sur-
prise, and for an instant, amusement, I uttered tbe cry' Edward, Edward.'
The great point is, of course, whether the hour was exactl:1J that of his death.
I will try to refer to my letters of that date, and I will write to Durban and
ask for the time to be again told me, but it will be rather more than two
months before any reply could come to my question."
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. X. adds :-
It was the only time in my life that anytldng of the lcind took place. I
never talked in my sleep, nor had any experience the least like this before or
since.
The following is from Mrs. X.'s daughter :-
I remember that on the morning of the 29th August my mother told me
Digitized by Google
lO2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research.. [July, 1884..
of the curious coincidence of which she has written to you. She told me
when I went into the room the first thing, and the nurse was also in her
room.
January 23M, 1884.
We add another case, where the unconscious cry is twice repeated,
:and takes the fuller form, "John is dead," instead of the mere utterance
of the name.
On themorning of February7th, 1855, at Mount Pleasant,Co. Dublin,where
I lived, I awakened from a troubled sleep and dream, exclaiming, "John
is dead." My husband said, "Go asleep, you are dreaming." I did sleep
and again awoke, repeating the same words, and asking him to look at the
watch and tell me what o'clock it was then; he did so and said it was 2
o'clock. I was much impreSBed by this dream, and next day went to the city
to inquire at the house of busineiIB; Mr. John C. being at Danehum for the
previous month. Whlln I got to the hOllse I saw the place closed up, and the
man who answered the door told me the reason. "Oh! ma'am, Mr. John
C. is dea.d." "When did he die 1" I said. "At two this monling," he said.
I was so much shocked he had to assist me to the waiting room and give me
water. I had not heard of his illness and was speaking to him a fortnight
previously, when he was complaining of a slight cold and expected the change
to Danehum wouln benefit him so that he should return to town immediately.
I never saw or heard of him after until I dreamt the foregoing.
EMILY LINCOLN.
I certify to the correctness of the facts of my wife's awakening me at the
date stated, asking me the time, &c., and to the further fact of the unex-
pected death of Mr. C. at the time.
HENRY LINCOLN.
Here too, as in the "Portland!" and " Edward" cases, the
borderland between sleep and waking seems to have furnished the
needful conditions of receptivity in the percipient's mind.
In several of our cases of mere impression the impre88ion rises into
consciousness at the same moment of awakening. And this, again, is
just what might have been expected. It is probably a common fact in
most men's experience to wakc with a sudden and startling clear per-
ception, either of some forgotten fact in the past, or of some danger in
the future, not consciously foreseen until that moment. Some-
times the impression is so vivid that we feel as if it had not
only occurred to us on waking, but woke us up; and it is in fact likely
that there may have been a sub-conscious activity of the brain going on
in sleep which suddenly kindled a train of emotion already laid, and
exploded with sufficient energy to dispel slumber from the whole brain.
There will thus be a close parallelism between the cases where the
telepathic impact is received during waking hours, but waits to mani-
fest itself in a dream, and the cases where it is received during sleep,
Digitized by Google
July, 1884.] Journal Of Society for Psychical Resea)·ch. 103
but is first consciously perceived at the moment of waking. In the
first case we may suppose that it continues to accumulate sub-con-
sciously, until sleep, by deadening the trains of conscious thought-its
successful rivals-allows its dimmer but persistent images to shape
themselves before the inward eye. In the second case we may suppose
that the telepathic influx, beginning, very likely, by giving rise to
dreams or sub-conscious disturbance, at last reaches a "flashing-point"
which wakes the sleeper and very likely causes him to forget, by reason
of the shock itself, the vaguer dreams which have led up to it.
These last cases may be said to have carried the diffused form of
telepathic influx to as high a pitch of definiteness as it can attain. We
have seen it, as it were, wme to a Mad, yet still without pouring itself
especially through anyone of the channels of sense.
We shall, in the next paper, approach the more specialised
semrny hallucinations, where hearing, sight, touch, or smell are dis-
tinctly affected. We shall find that the groups of cases which we
meet will continue, a~ before, to slide insensibly into each other.
F. W. H. M.
(To be continued.)
A NEW ALLY OF ART.
We have received the following from Rev. E. P. Thwing, 156, St..
Mark's Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.:-
The relations of the artificial trance to medicine and surgery, to·
oratory and song, have been shown by different writers, but at the last
meeting of the N.Y. Academy of Sciences, Professor Thwing suggested
the new ally which painting and plastic art may find in hypnotism.
He showed photographs of silent, slumbering statues, standing and
sitting, fixed to the finger's end to suit the artist's thought or sculptor's
fancy, erect or bending, but motionless, with no support. Fatigue,.
inattention and embarrassment are elements entirely eliminated in
these tableaua; m'lJants. The pose and gesture can be changed without
waking the subject. A shapely arm, a dirnplt>d cheek, a curving neck,
a noble brow, by this unique process can b"Nt-f, offto the best advantage
while the owner is insensible to everything but to the silent thought
of the operator.
Even more of pathos and beauty may be secured by the lucid or
waking state, where movement of the person and changing facial ex-
pressions are regulated by his word. As the photographer throws up,
Digitized by Google
10~ Jowrnal of Society for P8ychical Resea'l-ch. [July, 188f.
or enlarges a portrait by a magnifying lens, so a hypertrophied mental
image is made on the tabula rasa of the hypnotised brain. The size of
the picture, that is, the intensity of rapture, hope or fear, is graduated
at will.
Dr. Thwing spoke of a man whose expression of countenance he
changed step by step, from that of ordinary indifference to that of
highest ecstasy, till he swooned, apparently. Art cannot create,
artifice cannot feign, such emotions as those thus awakened by a
series of gl'aduated suggestions on the part of the operator.
Every neurologist and alienist is familiar with these facts, fixity
of posture, insensibility to pain and increased susceptibility to sugges-
tions from without, as concomitants of disease. Transitory effects can
be artificially induced with those in health. They are dreams, in
fact, and if wisely directed may be helpful aids to histrionic effect or
to plastic art.
OORRESPONDENCE.
[Tbe following letter, which I have received from Mr. Gorham Blake, of
San Francisl.'O, will be read with interest by those of our readers who have
followed the valuable papers on "The Classification of Oi.ses of Phantasms of
the Living and Dying," which Mr. F. W. H. Myers· has contributed to the
Journal. It should be added that I do not know Mr. Blake, nor have I had
any means as yet of confirming the accuracy of his interesting statements,
but they are in acconl with otber facts known to us. It is to be earnestly
hoped Mr. Blake, who has now joined the S.P.R., will continue his ex-
periments, and contribute his results to the Society.-W. F. R]
DEAR SIR,-Your favour of April 15th was received here on my return
from Georgia, the 24th inst., and in reply I will state to you something of
the cause of my investigations of the interesting and importaut phenomena
before u~. Tbe year 1850 found me exploring the Island of Sumatra. And
at one time, with a Malay Rajah and a small company of native guards, after
a long tramp in the blazing sun, I was stricken down exhausted with
symptoms of sunstroke and fever. The Rajah called his doctor, and a wild.,
savage, naked, native Malay appeared, directed my clothes to be removed.,
then commenced manipulating and making passes from my head to feet,
during which I felt his great magnetic [mesmeric] power, was put to sleep
and within an hour awoke free from pain and refreshed. It astonished me
and set me to investigating" animal magnetism." From 1852 to the present
my business as mining engineer has sent me all over the country, and much in
the saddle, from which I acquired perfect health, and in a short time realised
that I had strong magnetic power, which, to cure disease, must emanate from
Digitized by Google
July. 1884.] JOU1"YULl Of Society fm' P8ychical &search, 105
a pure source. To comply with the necessary conditions, I gave up the use
of tobacco and all stimulating food and drink, and commenced a diet of plain
nourishing food, with plenty of exercise on horseback, and sleep. I soon
found my magnetism sought for· by invalids for headache, rheumatism,
neuralgia, and other diseases. And I performed most wonderful cures, and
in many cases, after the patient hM been given up by physicians to die, I
have brought them up to health and they live to-day. I write of this to
show you m'!l condition, the experimenting instrument.
I soon had quite a list of sensitives as patients. I found some more
susceptible than others; several were relieved of all pain at once, by my
taking their hands or placing my hand on their heads or part afflicted,
or breathing upon them. For 18 years I experimented in California, then
moved to Nevada, 600 miles east, then to New York, 3,000 miles east.
During" these years I had visited the Atlantic States many times, and had
patients (sensitives) in Massachusetts and New York, and as I have prac-
tised and relieved pain gratuitously, I secured the gratitude and intimate
friendship of my patients, which I consider an importaot auxiliary to
my experiments, or the phenomena. In 1869 I crossed the great Humboldt
(40 mile) desert, in the State of Nevada, for the sixth time, alone, in the
saddle; by an accident my horse, a wild mustang, escaped, leaving me
at 10 a.m. on foot in that ankle deep alkali sand, under the blazing
July sun, and twenty miles from a drop of water, except that in my
saddle bags on the horse. Hours were spent in the chase for my horse.
Then I tried to shoot him, but he escaped, leaving me exhausted, sun-
struck, dizzy, alld finally helplessly dying on the hot, shadeless alkali about
noon. I passed the agony of death by thirst, heat, and exhaustion, and
became insensible. It was rare a traveller passed that way at that season,
the track marked only by the bones of dead animals. A chance traveller
came, saw my horse, and found me insensible, laid me in the shade of
his waggon, and bathed me with water and vinegar until I came back to
life. He lassoed my horse, and at sundown I mounted and rode to the
settlements. Between half-past two and three o'clock that afternoon one
of my sensitive lady friends in Boston, Massachusetts (2,600 miles distant),
while talking with her husband, suddenly threw up her hands and said, "Mr.
Blake is dead," and could not be reconciled to the contrary. She persuaded
her husband to visit my father ill the same city and learn where I was, &c.
Two years after (in 1871) I visited the friends, and was immediately asked,
"Where were you two years ago, the last week in JUly 1" On comparing
notes, and allowing for the difference in time, we concluded that at the time
I became insensible on the desert my lady friend received the intf>lligence.
I know I thought of the lady and her husband while lying on the sand,
as we were long dear friends. Afterwards, during my residence in New
York, 200 miles distant from Boston, this sensitive had positive mental
communication with me. She knew when I was unwell, or disturbed by
vexatious business, and I found I could by concentrating my thoughts on
her make her think of me. Generally, the experiments were most satis-
Digitized by Google
106 j 0'/1/1"001 of Society for Psychical Research. [July,l88f.
factory about twilight or early morning. I will say I never attempted to
me.tmeriBe a patient. I imparted magnetism by simply holding the hands or
head, and not consciously exercising my will liver their mind.
In the year 1866, I resided in Tuohlmne County, California, interested
in gold mining. I also had large gold mining property in Placer County,
California, over 100 miles distant. My partner was a dear friend who resided
at the mine in Placer County, while my home was then in Tuolumne County.
Our correspondence was frequent, and soon after the establishment of the
conditions, we nuticed that questions asked in letters by either, about business
and other matters, were answered, often the Bame dall that the letter in which
the question was asked was written, the lett.ers passing each other on the road.
This occurred dozens of times. And often we wrote our letters the same day
and hour without previous arrangement. In c.mversation we could often
turn each other's thoughts to different subjects, and very olten on meeting
him at his house, alter an absence, he would say "I've been thinking of you
for an hour," or "I knew you were coming," while I had tried before
arriving to impress upon his mind that I was approaching. And sometimes
he would feel that I was coming when at a distance of 40 miles. This
gentleman was so sceptical about magnetism and kindred subjects that I
refrained from talking with him about it, and he was not aware that I was
experimenting, which made the tests more satisfactory to me.
In 1882 and 1883 I came to San Francisco from New York, 3,000 miles. and
visited some of myoId friends and patients, and selected one lady for ex-
periment. I magnetised her often, and when I returned to New York opened
a tri-weekly correspoudence with her; by this I proved that mental com-
munication is possible at that distance. She, ,"ery sensitive, not only knew
of my mental state but physical surroundings, and I became aware of any
mental agitation with her, such as sickness or sorrow. If I visit her house
I can mentally call her to the door at once.
I have views in explanation of some of these phenomena, but would be
pleased to learn any explanation or views on the subject that you can give.
Of course 34 years' investigation in this and kindred subjects has given me
thousands of tests and incidents, some of which I may publish at some
future time.-I remain, very respectfully yours,
GORHAM BLAKE.
San Francisco, California, May 30th, 1884.
DONATIONS TO SPECIAL FUND.
Received since last month.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers (Second donatiou)
Rev. W. Whitear (Second donation)
£25
£10
Digitized by Google
July, 1884.J Journal Of Society for Psychical Research. 107
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The followin.g additions have been made since la8t month.
[R] CAMPBELL (Duncan) The History of thl' Life and Adventures of
D.C., a Gentleman, who though Deaf and Dumb, writes down
any Stranger's Name at first sight (By D. Defoe)•........ ...London, 1720*
[R] ApPARITION OF SPIRITS (A Relation of).•..... ..(No place ofpublica#on), 1780*
ASTOUNDING FACTS FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD•••.•••••Southampton, Mas8. 1854+
BAXTER (Richard) The Certainty of the World of Spirits, to which
is added, The Wonders of the Invisible World, by Cotton Mather,
D.D., F.R.S. ............................................................London, 1834*
BIBLIOTHKCA DIABOLICA. In Two Parts: Pro and COn......,New York, 1874*
Cox (Edward W.) The Mechanism of Man: An Answer to the Ques-
tion-What Am I 1
Vol. I. The Mechanism .........................................................London, 1876*
Vol. II. The Mechanism in Action ..........................................London, 1879*
DEATH DEEDS. An Extraordinary Incident Connected with Barbadoes
London, 1860*
[R] DEATH WATCH (The) Dialogues upon Spirits. By a Country Clergy-
IDan ........................................................................London, 1796*
DEMONOLOGIA. An Expose of Ancient and Modern Superstitions.
By J. S. F................................................. .............London, 1831:1:
DENDY (Walter Cooper) The Philosophy of Mystery..............London, 1841*
ELLIOTT (Charles Wyllys) Mysteries or Glimpses of the Supernatural
New York, 1852*
HALL (S. C., F.S.A.) The Use of Spiritualism......................Gla8gow, 1876*
HAWKER (Rev. R. 8.) Footprints of forml'r Men in Far Cornwall
London, H!7o*
HEIDENHAIN (Professor Rudolf, M.D.) Animal Magnetism. From the
German, by J. C. Wooldridge, H.Sc. With a preface by J. G.
Romanes, M.A., F.R.S. ..............................................London, 1880*
HAUNTED HOUSE AT HINTON. A HamJlshire Ghost Story. [In a
Volume of the Gentleman's Magazinel.. .......................London, 1872*
[R] HISTORY OF ApPARITIONS; or, a Vil'w of tne Invisible Worlrl..London, 1752*
[R] HISTORY OF ApPARITIONS; or, the Secretsof the Invisible World London, 1770*
NOTK.-This appears to be an anonymously published and greatly abridged
edition of Andrew Moreton's book.
HUNT (Miss Chandoil Leigh) Instructions in Organic Magnetism
London, N.D.
INGRAM (John H.) The Haunted Homes, and Family Traditions of
Great Britain ................................................ ...........London, 1884~
JOURNAL OF ScIENCE (The) The Vols. for 1875, 1879 and 1880,
London, *
LIGHT. Vols. I., II., and III., for 1881, 1882, and 1883.........London, *
MAITLAND (Rev. S. R., D.D., F.R.S. and F.S.A.) Superstition and
Science. An Essay...................................................London, 1855*
- - False Worship. An Essay.....................................London, 1856*
[R] MORETON (Andrew) The Secrets of the Invisible World disclosed, or
an Universal History of Apparitions. 4th edit..............London, 1740*
[R] PAMPHLETS, English, Vol. III. .
BARKAS (T. P.) Original Researohes in Psyohology............... ...London, 1876*
Cox (Serjeant) Matter and Spirit............................................London, 1876*
- - Has Man a SouL.....................................................Lolldoll, 1877*
CRAIG (James) History of a Case of Spectral Illusions, Containing also
Account of Cases of Spectral Illusions by R. Paterson, M.D.
Edinbtwgh. N. D.*
ELLIOTBON (John, M.D., F.R.S.) Cases of Surgioal Operations in the
. Mesmeric State..............................................................London, 1843
Hopps (John Page) A Scienti1lo Basis of Belief in a Future Life
London, N. D.*
LXIGHTON (Andrew) "Wonder" in Relation to Spiritua1ism.......J4lndon.l'\.D.*
Digitized byL.Oogle
108 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July. 1884.
LEWIS (Cornewall) and the Rev. S. Maitland on Mesmerism.......Lond«m. 1851*
SWEIJENBORG (Emanuel) The Intercourse between the Soul and Body
London. 1867§
WARNER (Rev. Richard) Remarks on Literary Recollections of...London. 1831
[R] P AKPHLETS, English, Vol. IV.-*
CARPENTER (Dr.• F.R.S.) Epidemic Delusions ............... .....Manchester. 1871
COLEMAN (Benjamin) The Mise and Progre8B of Spiritualism in England
London. 1871
EDMONDS (Hon. J. W.) What is Death? ........ .....................New YOI'k, 1863
GILLINGHAM (James) Eight Days with the Spiritualists .............London, 1872
Hopps (John Page) Six :Months of Spirit Communion.... ............L01Idon, 1867
l\1.A.(Oxon.) Spiritualism at the Church CongreSB.....................London, 1861
ZERVFI (G. G.• Ph.D.. &c.) Dreams and Ghosts........................London. 1875
[R] P AKPHLETS, English, Vol. V.-*
CROOKES (Wm.• F.RS.) Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism
London, 1874
---- Psychio Force and Modem Spiritualism......................London, 1871
---- Notes of an Inquiry into the Phenomena called
Spiritual......................................................................London, 1814.
EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION!I. From Tile Spiritualist.. .........Lorodon. 1871
Cox (E. W .. S. L•• &e.) Spiritualism allswered by Science..........London, 1871
" " 2fld edit•• London. 1872
TESTIMONY: Its Posture ill the Scientific W orId. By Robert
Chan,bers................................................................................ 1859
BLACKWELl. (Anna) Spiritualism and Spiritism ................................... N.D.
SPIRITUALISM. Narrative of Facts ()\l8erved (for Private Circulation)
GlaBflow. 1864
HARRIS (George. F.S.A.) Supernatural Phenomena...................London. 1874
'IHE PRESS versus SPIRITUALISM. By Investigator ..................London. N.V.
REICHENBACH (Baron Charles von) Researche~ on Magnetism, Elec-
tricity, &c., in their Relations to Vital Force. From the German,
by Wm. Gregory. M.D., F.R.S.L..................................London, 1850*
REVISITS FROK THE WORLD OF SPIRITS ................................London, N.D.*
SPICER (H.) Strallge Things Among Us ..............................Lo-ndon, 1863*
SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE (The) Vols. for 1874 and 1875...............Londo-n, ..
SPIRITUAL NOTES.........................................................London, 1878-80*
TAYLOR (Joseph) Apparitions: A Collection of Stories founded on
Fact.......................................................................Londoo,1815*
TUKE (D. Hack, M.D.) Sleep-Walking and Hypnotism...........London,1884
W-- (G., M.D.) Theosophy, and the Higher Life...............London,1880*
YOUNG (Charle!l Mayne) A Memoir of.................................Loodoo,1871*
MAURY (L. F. Alfred) La Magie et L'Astrologie .....................Parn, 1860
MORIN (S. A.) Du Magnetisme et des Sciences Occultes............Parn. 1860
FISCHER (Prof. Fr.) Der Somnambulismus. 3 vols........ ...........Baale, 1839 .
HENNINGS (Prof. J t1stus Christian) Von den Traumen und Nachtwand-
lern ....................................................................... Weimar, 1784
MITTHEILUNGEN aus dem magnetischen Schla:fleben der Somnambule
Auguste K. in Dresden.............................................D1'I'sden, 1843
MEIER (Dr.) Geschichte der hellsehellden Auguste Muller....Stuttgart, 1818
PASSAVANT (Dr. Johann Carl) Untersuchnngen tiber den Lebens-
magnetismus und das Hellsehen......2nd edit. Frankfurt-am-Main, 1837
SCHOPENHAUER (A.) Parerga und Paralipomena. 4th edit. 2 vol. Leipzig, 1878
WIENER (Dr. M.) Selma die judische Seherin ........................Berlin, 1838
WIRTH (J. U.) Theorie des Somnambulismus oder des Thierischell
ZEI'::~~;!i~r:;~~~~;;;~~~'~'Ai~~~:'" H~~~;;~g;g~b~~'~~;;'F~:lri~ 1836
Nasse. Vois. 1-5.............................................Leipzig, 1818·1~22
* Presented by the Rev. W. Whitear. t Presented by Mr. AUred M. Box.
~ Presented by Kiss Rogers. • Presented by the 8wedenborg 8001ety.
, Presented by Mr. F. B. Money·Coutts.
Digitized by Google
