{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael Z NDE 9403","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael Z NDE 9403  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5041 Michael Z NDE 9403  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    In 2017 my wife and I have been renovating our present home in order to move in. I have to use medications since 2010 to stabilize my blood pressure, and on this day I felt not well. As we had been under time pressure I still had to continue to grind off and oil the ceiling, working with my arms above the head. I forgot to take my medication and felt a rise of the blood pressure and then I hit my hand with the hammer hurting it bloody and it was quite painful.

  When I decided to have a break with a friend and took my hands down I started feeling slightly dizzy. We went outside to drink a 'Schorle' (wine mixed with sparkling water). I felt the dizziness and set down on the cold stairs outside until everything went dark in front of my exes.

  Then everything was black and I only remember waking up, being in the arms of my wife and I saw my friend with his wife shaking me.

  About the experience:

  I only perceived the darkness coming und after this I found myself in a dark, circular room that was completely black. But in there I couldn't feel any cold, but an incredible warmth and well-being. Never before in my life did I have this kind of feeling. It was a downright excessive feeling of safety and security, stronger than any hug when I was a child. It felt like: Love, warmth, security, safety, well-being, relaxation, welcome....everything that you had already experienced in life, but altogether at once.

  In front of myself, in a certain distance I saw a bright, round light 'window' wherein you could see something green and rainbow colored. I was surrounded by figures/people that I didn't see, but I could very distinctly feel how they softly put their hands on me and were guiding me. I didn't see them but I perceived exactly that they have been loved ones from my life intercepting me. If those were still alive or already deceased I could not tell, except that my feeling now tells me that they had been deceased. I was sitting on something, so that I didn't need to walk and I had the feeling that my preferred deceased pets were there too.

  Then I perceived a fast ending of this feeling and I was aware that the hands let go, to leave me there. Then I opened my eyes and looked at the face of my friend shaking me, and looked at the face of my wife holding me.

  With this came a feeling of anger and disappointment because they had been tearing me away from this wonderful feeling. I felt an incredible sadness, because I felt again my body and my exhaustion.

  But later on, I also felt fine again as if deep down in myself something had been 'recharging' me or giving me 'power'.

  For about 10 minutes afterwards I was somehow perturbed, because I didn't know anymore what exactly was reality and I had to tell them what happened, as I needed to share the incredible feeling I experienced.

  Deep in my memory I have the pictures of the whole sequence and I see myself sitting on the stairs. I see my friend with the glass in his hand running toward myself and asking what's wrong. Then he looked at me and hitting my face until he saw that there was only white in my eyes and that they had been twisted back. Very nervously he called his wife and mine out of the house. My wife took a seat to my left, holding me in her arm, and he was in front of me shaking and buffeting me to wake me up. His wife was standing next to him and wanted to call emergency. That's what I believe having seen, while I'm not very sure about that because those pictures were only coming up one or two days later, and I can't really distinguish between reality and imagination.

  But my friend meant, that according to his knowledge about the whole sequence, this is approximately consistent with what happened and that the whole thing took something between 3 and 10 minutes. But  we have to consider that in this moment the feeling of time might be a bit vague.

  After this I was still quite sad for several days as I realized that I might probably not feel this feeling again for a long time and I'm looking forward to that moment.

  During my life I always had been already a very empathic person and I always could sense the people that I know well. Because of this feeling I could always understand them and could tell them in general about their present feelings, what really scared them quite a bit. Since this experience I feel this much more and intensively. I can even tell some thoughts of my counterpart.

  A little story after this event that seems a bit odd and I don't know if it fits in with it:

  In 2018 we took over the Hotel and Restaurant of my parents. Since the year of the event, each time I looked at the clock it was either  9:11 am or 19:11pm and the numbers 911 have been chasing me at least once a day. The more, I always got a feeling that somebody is with me and sometimes I also clearly could see a person in my presence, looking at me fondly. I never could see this person distinctly because it was always moving, but never running away from me. My strong feeling and conviction about this person is that this is my deceased grand-father who bought this building for my father and who also died in this renovated house. 

  In 2019 there was a big fire in our Restaurant, and from then on I don't see No figure/person anymore and the number 911 has stopped. Nevertheless, I sometimes have the extremely warm feeling, that just now somebody is next to me and is hugging me.

  Great thanks for the possibility of 'trying' to put the experience in words, while the experience can never be described!!

  Best greetings,

  Michael Z  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2/2017  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Forgot medications, hard work and injury with passing out.  Other Private without diagnostic findings/fainting  At the time I had high blood pressure what was treated with medications at that moment. On that day I felt quite weak and had to work a lot with my hands above my head, as we were renovating our house. While doing this work I hit my hand painfully with a hammer and after this lesion I wanted to take a break with a friend who was present. During this break I fainted.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I believe that I saw the whole sequence, but I only became aware of this sometime later and I'm not very sure if this was real.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The only thing that I was even more conscious of was the feeling of incredible security as already described.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Both have been the same and I don't have the feeling that some part was more real and some part was not real.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was always tense and had the feeling that without working and performance I wouldn't accomplish anything. After this I saw life a lot more relaxed and it was more 'defined' but not badly 'defined'. Therefore I have to give my life more spontaneity without forgetting my responsibilities.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wouldn't be consciously aware about a change or a difference.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The very first feeling was a black circular room, but it could also have been a tunnel. But it was only black and nothing of the room/tunnel had been moving.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt persons familiar and known to me, and my deceased pets. I didn't see the persons, it's only my feeling that tells me that those had been deceased.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright light/window, also circular. Within I saw from afar something green similar to a 'meadow' and something with 'rainbow colors'.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It didn't feel directly mystic, but was rather quite familiar and the feeling was to arrive at a place that I always have been looking forward to. It was more of a coming home.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth, Love, security, safety, all at once and it is hard to describe this with words.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I had a much deeper contentment within and somehow there had been No problems anymore.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I got the feeling that I was led/escorted somewhere but I didn't get, nor see, any proof for this.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   I believe that something exists between life and death, but I don't believe in the church god, and therefore I'm not affiliated with any religion. The closest and more relevant belief would be Christianity.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     In religion nothing changed but I'm dealing more with this subject and I'm more acquainted with the afterlife. I believe that we are still a part of all those in our environment.  

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist   Nothing has changed in my beliefs.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My common sense tells me that I was somewhere else, but at this point in time there was No difference. At every point of time I felt like being in reality; before, during and after the experience.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became even more relaxed dealing with my fellow men and I can better forgive mistakes of others and understand why these happened.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I had figures/people surrounding me, which I didn't see. I only had a strong feeling that they have been familiar and related persons. It felt like at least five or six people.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes, a continuous reality was clearly felt and the indescribable feeling made the connection with everything.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   It's hard to realize a purpose. More of the aim that I always have to question myself  if my way of life ist meaningful in every aspect!  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I didn't see directly any meaning and purpose. It simply showed me that I should always question and think about my life realistically, and not to take everything so seriously.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I have felt that I am being guided/accompanied somewhere but I have not received or seen any evidence of this  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We have to learn to perceive our fellow men in a better way and to support each other more. Every human being has good and bad days and therefore we have to try on our good days to better support people with bad days.  I could have so many ideas that a book wouldn't suffice to put them all down.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There was so much love and warmth, that I can't describe more with words.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I sense and perceive my familiar people even stronger than before. I sense familiar deceased people around myself and I can perceive them partly.  I'm strongly interested in this ''transition''; what's happening when a person dies. If I have terminally ill people around me I can sense their power and despair. When I have a very deep trust and a connection I sometimes talk about my experience.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I would assert that my relationships also got more relaxed, same as my life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   You simply can't express this feeling, how much warmth and joy was present in that moment. I would wish that every person could experience this strong feeling so that they could understand me.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex  The experience happened somehow in accordance with reality and truth.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I always could feel and understand people. I have the feeling that this is now even more intensive. Sometimes I can tell my counterpart the exact feelings and thoughts, but it could still be only a coincidence.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This unbelievably strong feeling which I try to recreate in many moments of my life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My friends, my wife who did believe it and we even had been crying together when I had to describe the feeling.  My family doctor (Female) who explained it away as a wrong way of using medication, at the ensuing examination.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not a direct knowledge but everybody is sometimes confronted with the fact that things like these may exist, and you also may notice one or the other article in the internet.  I didn't deal with this intensively before.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At every point in time there was only reality. There was No difference and there isn't any until today. There was reality before, during, and after the experience it was the same.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is No difference until today, and there is No doubt about it until today. Because I felt something that I never before had been feeling, but what I can reproduce and feel partially, so it really must have been  like this and I took a part of it along.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The feeling of the experience is still with me and I can use it partly in my life if needed.  I very cautiously try to talk about with people when I have the feeling it could help them or would take away their fear.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to give exactly this feeling to every person being scared of death, in order to take their fear away. It's sad if you are passing over with fear and then realize how beautiful it is!  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. I think the questionnaire is suitable and detailed enough to express what happened, as well as ones personal feelings.                 				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_z_nde.html