{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michele_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Michele C NDE 6649","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michele C NDE 6649  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michele C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3303 Michele C NDE 6649  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The car accident was due to a sheet of ice. After having ‘seen’/scrolling the elements of my life (only small events that touched or upset people), I found myself at the ceiling of the operation room. I saw a body and two heads (nape of neck) bent over it. I called but was not heard. I didn't understand anything.  My body was in my head (consciousness) but my head had no limits. There was no pain. The person laying there was ‘ugly’, but of a non-physical ugliness, somehow greyish, but I didn't recognize myself. Then I found myself in a tunnel without walls.  There was some kind of a tornado in which I rose at breathtaking speed.  There was no time to realize what was happening.  I finally arrived in front of a luminous being that blocked the way, telling me ‘You shall help to give birth’ ... wonderful vision.

I have to specify that this being was old, without being old. He ‘blocked’ the way - the word is lacking, since words like ‘block, refrain, stop, send back’ are negative words and do not correspond to my feelings because I felt welcome but left quickly. I was in a living air, full of a white-golden light that ‘breathed love’ and that was all.

I woke up in the hospital, in a ward bed in Paris. An elderly lady was bent over me, listening to me.  I was telling her enthusiastically about my odyssey and another lady at the foot of the bed (I was told this was the anesthetist) who said ‘She's crazy enough to be locked away’. This sentence created a violent shock in my mind. I suddenly realized what I was saying. Afterwards I didn't talk about this experience for 20 years and my life took another direction, searching for meaning through reading all kinds of literature.  Oriental philosophy opened my mind!

Previously I had been closed to any form of philosophy and discussion but Dr. Moody's book helped me a lot! I changed my life, went to live in the south of France, etc. I felt the need, 15 years later, to paint my experience symbolically, which is not like me at all. Then I entered volunteer work, helping sick people, where I started to mention this experience. Today, after much questioning during these past years (birth, living, having children, and dying), I am now volunteering in palliative care.  I created an association JALMALV in 2007 from which I recently resigned as President.

I feel that the next step is coming. I'm amazed and expectant because helping seriously sick people is the purpose of my life and ‘To live means serving’ is my motto. 

Currently the body stops me so I'm waiting.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  décembre 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  There were multiple bruises, 2 broken bones in the forearm and other fractures from the car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very conscious but what a consciousness!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no track on time, on our time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sight was lived with love. Everything is One.  I felt a consciousness that contains everything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Thinking and sensing were especially different.  The message passed right by the two ears!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a tunnel without walls.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was different from our light.  It was golden or white and superior to our light; it was living.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was an unfamiliar and strange place.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Oblivious – there was no time to reflect on it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   baptiste mais ath?

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   pas de religion, philosophie orientale, indienne...embrasse toutes les religions

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before, I thought that death was easier than the belief in an after-life.  Afterwards, life is more ‘difficult’ (but how much more exciting and beautiful) because one has to find the sense of this terrestrial experience and then realize it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   I got the message - stop.  The mental search came later on and took years.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     There was a search for explanations, a realization that something had to be accomplished – what was the meaning of my life and how should I live. My experience directly resulted in questions about my purpose. My NDE caused an incessant research of the meaning of life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Like a different dimension, non-human reality (no boundaries in that total consciousness).

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   je me souviens d'anecdotes sur la suite mais pas des soins, du temps rest??l'h?ital, duquel h?ital, des medecins, des traitements...pas de souvenirs marquants autres;;;exp?ience trop forte a gomm?le reste...

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Feeling, intuition but no special faculties.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I had the need to talk immediately to 2 people.  Their reaction was that I had had a beautiful dream but you are sick so you are fantasizing.  Then total denial, for many years, for fear of being branded as mad, etc. Then I began to mention it when I started volunteering but not much because I couldn't explain myself or know how to justify myself. If others do not believe me now that does not bother me anymore.  Today, if the opportunity exists, I decide to speak about it, since the seminar in Martigues in 2006.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't discover love - I was inside of love.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. I have written it for the first time, spontaneously.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michele_c_nde.html