{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michel_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Michel B NDE 4544\/944","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michel B NDE 4544/944  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michel B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2475 Michel B NDE 4544  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 4544 Translated to English by Kathy.  					</p>  					My NDE – Brain hemorrhage as a result of a stroke.  

I began answering the NDERF questionnaire on February 25, 2004, some 3 years and a few months after my hemorrhagic stroke, which happened in late October 2000. I had nearly immediate coma, surgery, resuscitation and awakening 3 weeks later. Now, in 2010 I am changing nothing to my account.

Hemorrhagic Stroke occurred during the night of the 28th to October 29, 2000, around 10:30 pm.  I had a feeling of discomfort while answering the telephone and an almost immediate loss of consciousness, a feeling of dizziness and the inability to speak.  I mumbled a few incomprehensible words to my wife, and made some uncontrolled movements on my left side.  My wife called for help (I ‘perceived’ her call). I saw a black hole. I ‘saw’ the firefighters arrive in my room.  I saw a definite black hole.

I underwent immediate surgery and then about three weeks in a coma during which I was on a ventilator and was given different drugs.  During this time, I had a few problems with oxygen deprivation (causing hypoxia / hypercapnia (?).  It may be at this time that I had my experience(s). 

My condition at the time of the experience was Clinical death (Cessation of respiratory, heart and brain function). I was on a respirator for 3 weeks.

I don't know if I was out of body, but I had the impression of lying on a very soft, warm substance (my mattress?); it was maybe a feeling of floating.  I was looking downwards, arms held close to the body. I was very, very comfortable in this extended position.  I was watching as a stranger (dispassionately) the scene unfolding about 50 meters away from me.  At no time did I sense fear about what was going on outside.  I was at peace, totally inaccessible; a simple observer, up high but not ‘flying’. I could see both my body and the outdoors.  I could see myself ‘seeing’ (very difficult to explain).  I could feel no pain.  I was very, very comfortable, totally relaxed, bathed in softness and light.  The feeling was of light, softness, peace and an absence of fear.  It is all extraordinarily difficult to describe.

I saw a stranger, perhaps a nurse, or doctor, dressed in a white shirt. 

There was a sense of tremendous brightness, but not dazzling, to my left. The scene was taking place in the morning, quite early, and I thought I could see a radiant sun illuminating everything.  I could see the scene through what I believed to be the bay window in my room.  The angle was very important every time I was looking down from above on this person dressed in a white shirt covering the arms all the way to the fingers.  The legs were also covered to the tips of the toes. What is notable is the luminosity that enveloped everything and the impression of peace and tranquility.

The first time: The person, quite young, dark hair, stethoscope around the neck, white shirt (classic image of a doctor) very sympathetic, holding his head in his hands, is saying, ‘but it’s not possible.’ Strangely, there was no indication of worry about him. It was a strange contradiction between what he was saying and the look on his face.

I could clearly hear everything that was being said despite the relative distance between the glass separating us.

The second time: It was the same scene that I was observing ‘from above and without emotion’, a person (the same?) still dressed in white on the telephone saying, and ‘The first time he had one chance in a hundred of pulling through the second time, one in a thousand’.  The person still had the same youthful look and I could hear perfectly clearly despite the distance (The bay window was not an obstacle) (hyper acoustics?). The sky was still exceptionally luminous but never dazzling.

Each time the ‘person’ was sitting on the steps, (very clean and brilliant). The stairway had about 15 steps and led to a great hall (glass doors reflecting the sun). The hall seemed to lead to or contain something darker, but not threatening, (difficult to describe) This scenery seemed to be a type of garden or prairie, very well groomed (very green grass cut short, white and yellow flowers with very luminous colors) Absolutely nothing out of place, the impression of a great cleanliness and of life.  There were no faded flowers or dead branches.  This whole landscape was bathed in light, which is difficult to describe correctly. According to my later research, I believe this is something close to the Garden of Eden.

I observed the scene as a stranger, with no particular emotion, except maybe the joy of being there.  I was totally at peace.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Octobre/Novembre 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    hémorragie artère cérébale antérieure droite  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   There were serious consequences of my stroke. The surgeons had told my wife, 'He has a good heart, good lungs, good kidneys but he’s had it.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I never had the impression of losing control.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I never had the impression of losing control.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had the impression of exceptional brightness, but never dazzling.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Maybe, hyper-hearing?  I could clearly understand a conversation taking place 50 meters away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I had the impression of being enveloped by a light that was sexually attractive.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A being in white, who communicated nothing to me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright light, not dazzling and very attractive.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     J'avais l'impression d'observer un jardin d'Eden.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great happiness of being there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a few years I started sharing my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Since my experience I have being doing research on the Net. I will also share my NDE with a young woman who had this experience after a traffic accident.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         


  Experience Description 944 translated to English by Marguy.  					</p>  					Being out of my body: No, but I had the impression to be lying on something lukewarm and very flexible, (my mattress?) Maybe a feeling of floating? At any rate, I was in this 'stretched position'. I watched the scene uninvolved, that took place some 55 yards away from me, under no circumstances I felt a sensation of fear nor any emotion whatsoever, I was in peace, completely inaccessible, a simple observer.


The presence of unearthly beings: No, no 'extraordinary encounters', no little pink, blue dotted, angels, no persons of my family (close or far relatives, ascendants or descendants) giving me advice. But a foreign person (nurse, house surgeon, doctor?) wearing a white overall in both cases.


Light: The impression of strong brightness at my right side (the scene happened quite early in the morning; I thought I saw a radiant sun, through a plate glass window). Each time from a bird's eye view on this figure dressed in white, but what was characteristic was this brightness that wrapped everything and the impression of peace and quietness.


The first time, this person, quite young, black hair, looking kind, held his head between his hands and said: ' But this is not possible, it is not possible.'


The second time a figure (the same?), but still wearing white, phoning somebody saying: 'At the first accident, one chance in ten to get away, the second, one in a hundred'.  The figure still seemed young, and I was perfectly hearing what he said, despite the distance. The plate glass window didn't prevent me from hearing what he said.


The presence of deceased persons: no, at no time


Darkness: no, not at all, at no time, only light


A landscape or a town: not really, but each time the figure was sitting on (white) stair steps, going towards a big hall (glass doors). The stairs were in the middle of a kind of garden or meadow (green grass, white and yellow flowers). All this 'landscape' was bathed in light.


A town: No


A boundary: No


Intense emotion: No, not at all, I watched the scene uninvolved, with no particular emotion. I didn't feel any particular sensation, I was totally indifferent and at peace.


A special knowledge: No


A life review: No, no scrolling of my past existence.


A vision of the future: No


Elements consistent with your beliefs of the moment: No, I don't think so.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    29 au 30 octobre 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     État de santé après l’expérience: hémiplégi gauche, perte de sensibilité profonde gauche, hyperesthésie cutanée gauche, hémianopsie latérale homonyme gauch, négligence gauche corrigée par la suite  État de santé actuel:  pas de changement par rapport à l'  Clinical death je ne sais pas exactement, mais je suis resté trois semaines sous respirateurHemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident (probably due to high blood pressure /HBP) happened in the night of 29th to 30th October 2000, around 10 PM Operation, then about three weeks in coma, during this time I have been on respirator and had different drugs, and I lived my experience(s).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very serious after effects of operation (The resuscitator team 'nicely' averted my wife: ' Your husband has a good heart, good lungs, good kidneys, but he's damned'?)

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No, just a conversation between the figure and an unknown speaker.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The sky was very bright for the season. I thought being in spring or summer, during a beautiful morning, (while we were October or November, I don't know exactly).

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      None, I fully paid attention to what was said around me, but without apparent emotion.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   cf plus haut

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I tried to find signs of NDE on the net, but none of them correspond to my own experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Nothing to say.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   I'm not using any psychodysleptic substances and I never tried to reproduce this experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      This experience is inexpressible, as at no time I felt it to be strange, or dreamlike or otherwise.

  </p>    			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michel_b_nde.html