{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_s_nde_3137.html","mytitle":"Michael S NDE 3137","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael S NDE 3137  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1124  Michael S NDE  3137  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Well when I was seven years old I had been rocking on a chair in the kitchen. I lost balance when I was rocking the chair and hit the back of my skull on the corner of the handle. My mom said she thought I was joking at first because she saw me shaking and stuck to the handle. She realized I had hit my head when she pulled me forward - I fell on the ground and blood started hitting the ceiling. I remember my mom driving and my grandma holding me in between her legs, with me bent over with a cloth over my head.  They were following an ambulance, which they had called. Until this, I remember the part where I was above the car, which we were driving, a brown two-door convertible. Then I had just woken up while they were wrapping the bandage over the stitches or staples. The funny thing is I remember the time I was above the brown two-door car convertible, but don't remember the time I was recovering from the injury.

The second time was when I was nine years old I had a tonsil surgery and I had an allergic reaction to the anesthesia. After waking up from the surgery, I felt paralyzed. I could not open my eyes or even speak. I was just lying there listening to the doctor say to me what had happened. I was so scared I yelled inside my head and moved as hard as I could. I went straight into the air, far away it felt, but I couldn't see or hear anything; only it was all clusters of white and black in front of me. All of a sudden, I had a feeling as though I was shot straight back down even faster than I went up. I was over my body looking down from the corner of the room from the left side of the body. I was in the middle of a really big room with my father next to me sitting on the chair. I saw he had a un-wrapped present in his hands which was a 'Wilson' basketball, that was what I wanted for a long time as a kid, it was my first basketball. I remember waking up and asking the people around me the first thing, 'Where is my basketball?' Everyone was surprised on how I knew about the ball. They asked the doctor. He replied that I had overheard everything. Then I replied, 'Where is the 'Wilson' basketball?' Then they were even more shocked when they learned that my father had only told me that he had bought me a new basketball and had never mentioned the brand 'Wilson'.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    exact date not known

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   AccidentDirect head injury    Other the corner of the handle of the sliding went into my skull before when I was rocking my chair and I lost balance..  Don't understand the question.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Right after they were done bandaging my head I felt like I was back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Don't understand the question.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Well when I saw myself in the car through the sun-roof between my grandma's legs. Everything had a white glow outlining every object.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard only the time I saw myself, my mother was screaming and crying while she was driving and my grandma was rocking back and forward holding my head with a white towel and it seemed like she was praying.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Well I was just viewing everything, but two years later I had another NDE during surgery and I felt non-human because I saw myself dying and my father next to me and I didn't feel sad, I had no emotions whatsoever, I just saw everything.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life has been very weird I wouldn't know where to start from the day I was born and until even this very second which I am typing this.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   none because I was a child I didn't really have a understanding of life.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     When I was a kid I don't think I understood life and the religious factors.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   I couldn't tell mainly Christian but I have many other beliefs that are not recognized in any records of any religion.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     When I was a kid I don't think I understood life and the religious factors.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I can't remember but I know there was.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  Well I was really young I don't know the kind of person I was so I don't know if it was because of this incident things are the way they are.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I explain things in person verbally much better, rather than putting it on paper because I believe I have poor skills in doing so.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Can't put in words.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Well several years ago I had asked my mother about that day and I had explained what I had experienced that day when I injured my head. I told her the color of the car, it was two-door, and with a sun-roof. She was shocked because I was really young and I only remembered that car through that picture memory where my mom was driving and my grandma was holding me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Well actually I don't really remember my life after that day until I had a nasty scar on the back of my head.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Well I had another NDE when I was nine years old and because of the second NDE I had was much clearer and much more evidential.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Two years later I had another NDE during surgery when my body had an allergic reaction to the anesthesia.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I had another NDE two years later because I had two experiences I felt more comfortable with my belief and what had happened to me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Well I believe the history of the individual is important including the family tree down to even the occupation's they held and what they were very good in because everyone is good in something. My male side of the family from my father's side where all investigators in a way and as well as me I see things in ways that no one else sees. I asked myself this question how come from the time of my experience, after almost fifteen years now I am investigating my NDE. I said to myself because now is the best time and the only time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_s_nde_3137.html