{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michaela_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michaela J Probable NDE 9670","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michaela J Probable NDE 9670  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michaela J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5224 Michaela J Probable NDE 9670  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  When I was 3 years old, I knelt by the garden pond and reached for a water lily. I lost my balance and fell into the water. I couldn't swim, so sunk. Immediately it became dark.  At the same time, I saw a strong light in the distance. Around me I saw small figures with fluttering lines of skirts. The characters looked like little fairies. I knew I was going to die, but it felt good. I didn't even choke. It felt like I passed out for a moment.   

  Neither I, nor my mother knows how long I had been passed out. She was close to me and heard the splashing.  I felt like I was just lying there limp in the water.  She pulled me out, slapped me in the back.  She said that I coughed and started crying.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Although I was small, I was very self-aware. At that moment I felt that I was the only one in the world.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to have disappeared.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I cannot judge, I was a very small child.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was absolute silence.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As if in the distance a strong light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness, that I will die but at the same time completely calm there under the water  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     I saw certain things when I drowned because from the time it happened until I was about seven years old I experienced strange things mainly before falling asleep. Astral travel, during which I met (probably) my spirit guides. I knew from a young age that my soulmate existed somewhere and they were probably very connected to each other. I knew he was worried, that he had a bad life. I was shown various scenes from adulthood when I go to the forest to see him (he worked there) and there they tell me that there was an accident and he died.... we really met when I was 38 years old, he really worked with wood. He died....not in the forest, but in a different way! There were so many visions from my childhood that I had to visit a psychiatrist :( around the age of eight everything stopped and I was left with only a kind of awareness of many things - that the soul is immortal, that we do not come from monkeys, for example. I was quite a misunderstood being among my peers and especially family!  
  
Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I cannot answer because I was too young.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Explained above.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Explained above.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Explained above.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I thought that I knew everything.  Unfortuntately today I cannt evaluate.  I was 3 years old.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Explained above.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I was a small child, I do not now whether it then had dawned on me.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Very strong intuition.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm more of an introvert and they don't communicate their feelings and thoughts, they wouldn't be understood!! I only discuss this with my son!!  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Even after 40 years I remember that feeling which I had during the experience.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never forgot the experience nor will I forget it.  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Even today I can still see this before my eyes.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It would need more answers because I was only 3 years old.           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michaela_j_probable_nde.html