{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_mc_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael Mc Probable NDE 9358","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael Mc Probable NDE 9358  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael Mc Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5019 Michael Mc Probable NDE 9358  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    In August of 2004, my oldest son was getting married Saturday. His bride-to-be had found a nice hotel for all the out of town guests. Although most guests were coming to town on Friday, we decided to make it a real vacation. My wife, three children and I arrived in town. I remember feeling ill Wednesday night, almost like I was coming down with the flu. So, we spent the next few days with my son and some of the guests.  We were sightseeing, visiting with his soon-to-be family, and getting tuxes. 

  I was feeling worse and worse. The night before the wedding, I had developed a temperature and my stomach was really upset. My son is a nuclear medicine technician so we spent quite a while talking about my symptoms and wondering what could be wrong. We decided I was going to  get checked out right after the wedding. I went to a local hospital to get checked out.
  
  The emergency room nurse asked me what was wrong.  I told her that I thought I had the flu.  They laid me on the exam table and poked around my stomach. I had a fever of 104F degrees. They took some blood and kept poking and prodding. Then she took a rubber mallet and tapped the bottom of my feet. The left foot was fine, but when she tapped the right foot, the pain in my abdomen sent me through the roof. She told me I had appendicitis and it may have ruptured. 

They called in a surgeon and scheduled me for an emergency appendectomy.   When the surgeon got there he looked over my lab results and told me he was pretty sure it had ruptured. He gave me some reassurance and they wheeled me into the operating room. 

  The next thing I know, Jesus is standing next to my bed. He was wearing a long white robe and looking at me. He wasn’t a ghost or some see-through apparition. He was in a physical body, had dark  hair, and was six foot tall. He held out his hand to me and said, 'I want to answer your prayer.' I was confused, so hesitated. Then, I grabbed his hand and we were instantly standing together on top of a mountain. There was thick fog all around us and grass beneath our feet. The really weird thing is that my senses seemed to be heightened and I could actually count the blades of grass. As he let my hand go, he continued to stand next to me. 

  My eyes were drawn to a distant light. The light seemed to be growing larger and brighter and it began to send beams of light towards Jesus and I. The beams of light started out slow but kept growing in intensity, frequency, and speed. Each light beam was about four foot long and made a buzzing sound as it went by us. One of the beams hit my head and seemed to slow down as it went through me. After a few minutes of this, the fog began to clear as if someone was pulling a curtain open. The fog disappeared, opening from my right to my left. 

  The first thing I noticed was a beautiful sky above us. The colors were spectacular and very, very vivid. Then I noticed flowers on the ground in front of us and also trees on distant mountains. The trees were all perfect shapes, like beautiful, green redwoods. The tip of each of the trees looked like they had diamonds on them.  When the light beams hit those tree tips, it burst into hundreds of tiny light beams. It was unbelievable how light and colorful everything was. Then I noticed a valley below us, between our mountain and the mountain in the distance. The fog was still there, but I could see a city just below the fog. Many of the rooftops were round,  ornate, and gold in color. 

  My eyes kept getting drawn back to the original light source. That’s when Jesus said, 'It’s the glory of the Lord.' When he said that, I fell to my knees and that jarring woke me up.
  
  I stayed in the hospital for a total of twelve days. Four of those days were in the intensive care unit. It took two days before I was able to tell my wife about my experience, because I would just cry every time I tried. The surgeon told me it was the worst case of appendicitis he had ever seen. Although after saying that, he told me he had seen worse, but mine was the worst case where the patient lived. I kept notes while in the hospital, because I told God I would tell others about my experience. And I had quite a few stories about the hospital stay. Some stories were very painful. But looking back, most were hilarious. I ended up writing a book, which I wrote as fiction.  I felt this would be easier for me to tell of my personal beliefs about Heaven. I firmly believe my experience is a real, physical place, right now. The book sold many, many more copies than I could have ever imagined. I have now sold that book in 26 different countries around the world.
  
  A few other notes about my experience. I always wondered what Jesus meant when he said he wanted to answer my prayer. I believe he was talking about me praying as a little kid, when I was just starting to learn about God. I remember when my grandfather died, I asked God to show me Heaven, because I wasn’t too sure about things at that point in my life because I was young and just starting to learn about faith. I also remember watching the Charlie Brown Christmas Special and being so curious when Linus made his speech about the birth of Jesus. When he said, 'The glory of the Lord shone all around them,' it gave me chills. It still does to this day, but I used to wonder what the glory of the Lord must look like.
  
  One last thing. A couple years after my NDE, I read a passage  in the Bible that talked about Heaven not needing light from the sun because  Heaven is lit up by 'the glory of the Lord'. Pretty amazing stuff. I feel very special that Jesus decided to answer my prayer, from when  as a kid about 40 years earlier, and show me his glory.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 8/2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Illness  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The best way to describe this is the fact that my senses were heightened so that I was able to count the blades of grass beneath my feet!.
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately and it lasted until I awoke  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision seemed the same, but the colors I saw were incredible.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was the same.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light beams, which seemed about 4 feet long and shooting towards me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A foggy mountain top. When the fog lifted it became clear I was standing on a grassy hillside with beautiful flowers, trees that had diamonds on their tips, which burst into hundreds of lights when the light source hit them. The sky was also a brilliant color.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was confused at first, but then extremely happy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   Jesus took my hand at my bedside.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes.   Jesus, wearing a white robe held my hand during my experience.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Jesus held my hand.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     MY NDE made me more aware of my surroundings and much more appreciative of the beauty on earth.  
  
  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm more patient and share my faith more freely.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It took two days to tell my wife because I started crying every time I tried.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared it with friends and after I published my book (Accidental Heaven) based on my NDE and my thoughts on a physical Heaven right now, I've spoken to churches, clubs and many others. Many people get emotional when I tell them about it. 

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_mc_probable_nde.html