{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_o_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael O Probable NDE 4575","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael O Probable NDE 4575  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael O Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2303 Michael O Probable NDE 4575  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was after my second surgery. They had been trying to determine where my internal bleeding was coming from. I stayed in recovery for a while and was later taken to my room in the critical care unit. About ten that night, three vascular surgeons came into the room. I was lying half-awake listening. They began to tell my wife, brother and parents, that they should stay close that there was a good chance that I would not make it through the night. The two nurses in the room began to cry. I had made friends with them. When hearing this I became very calm and peaceful. The only thing I remember thinking was that I wish they could fly me home so that I could die in Pensacola. I didn't want my family making that drive if I was dead. I just lay there waiting; really thinking this isn't so bad. I was looking forward to relief from the sheer pain of the bleeding that was filling up in me. I had nine blood transfusions.

The next thing I knew I was sitting on the end of the bed. I mean in an instant. It took me a second to reorient myself. The bleeding was in my hip area so my legs were not working and I remembered this. I could not figure how I was on the end of the bed. I could hear everyone talking and I began to look around. I could see myself and nobody was looking at me at the end of the bed. It took a minute, but it dawned on me. That was it. I couldn't help but thank how painless and easy death is. Evidently, God takes good care of us at that moment. As I sat there for a moment not really knowing what I was supposed to do next, everyone's voices began to fade. Then a large, being, I'm going to say guy for the sake of this conversation, walked into the room. Still a little disoriented, I assumed it was another doctor, except for the size. He had an orange garb that was brilliant. I guess God or Jesus or someone close to him to wear a halo, so that I would get the gist of what was happening. He had a perfect lit up white halo about three inches above his head. He stood in front of me sitting on the bed. I knew him better than I knew anyone in the room. It was as though I had known him forever. He looked at me and gave me a choice to stay or go. Without hesitation, I said let's go. I was ready. I had been battling illness for three years. I had been through chemo, and tons of drugs. Not to mention the worst pain ever with what I was currently experiencing. I looked back with no regret, knowing that my family could not lose in the end. I was tired and wanted terribly to be with this being. He solely cared for me and loved me so much. I made my choice to go.  In almost an instant, my head was flooded with images of my two children and how hurt they would be. I know he did it, and I'm glad. I told him that I would have to stay. We talked briefly, I told him that I was so overwhelmed by the fact that with all the life I believe is in the universe and all the people on this planet, that they had not forgotten me in this little room in Birmingham. He responded that no one is forsaken. He also told me that the only thing important is how we treat one another.

With that, I was back in my body, feeling terrible. I kept saying to my wife, did you see the man with the halo. That night my blood count went up on its own. The bleeding stopped, and I was released from the hospital four days later. The hospital is publishing the case. They are great doctors, but I've got news for you, I know who fixed things.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 14, 2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   This is the second time something like this has happened to me. I wrote to you previously about my mishap in Argentina that led to kidney failure. This is somewhat of a byproduct of that. Due to immune suppressants that I was on, I contracted a severe syndrome.  There have only been eight cases of this syndrome recorded in medical journals. I had severe internal bleeding that would not stop. I spent twenty-one days in the hospital. They flew me to another hospital because I was dying and it was so rare they didn't know how to treat the case.  Of the eight cases, only two of us survived.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The sense of not having to be anywhere at any time, as though there was nothing you had to do, created a sense of no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Your sense of things are clearer. It's like you know your purpose.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I can say love, can't describe the rest.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel much closer to God and Jesus. It is a blessing to know they did not forget me in that room, nor would they forget any creature in this universe.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel much closer to God and Jesus. It is a blessing to know they did not forget me in that room, nor would they forget any creature in this universe.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes This is the best I have felt in three years. It is like I am high on life now. I didn't realize how sick I was the past three years and had gotten used to it. They now have me off the medications that caused this and I feel better. I have years of treatments ahead of me and a transplant in the future. However, I have no fear.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have trouble finding words for the emotion and utter peace. The feelings of total acceptance are hard to explain, along with trying to explain a lack of sense of time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I could not wait to tell my wife the next day. I have told a few people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had one three years prior.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_o_probable_nde.html