{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael R Possible NDE 3489","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael R Possible NDE 3489  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael R Possible NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1548 Michael R Possible NDE 3489  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with family on our yearly summer vacation at the Outer Banks Beach. We were having some fun drinking a few and my sister and brother wanted me to smoke this substance. They said it was not illegal so I didn't figure there would be any harm in trying it. At first, it didn't bother me other than some laughing. After my brother and sister saw what an ass it was making out of me they continued to push me to smoke more and more. After I hit the stuff again, I started to get a little light headed and then after the next hit the lights went out.

I couldn't see anything other than darkness. It seemed in the blink of an eye everything was gone. It was not a slow transition.  It was like closing your eyes and opening them to black and nothing. I felt my body was close by but my mind was not with my body. It felt as if I had left my body and couldn't make out what was real and what wasn't. I saw flashes of things that had passed in my life. Not like a movie, it was more like fast blinks, and I was unable to stop it or move from it. The feelings were of panic and fear. There was a great overwhelming feeling of anxiety. I felt heaviness like being smothered. It felt like I may be drowning. I could hear a muffled sound and hissing. It was like someone talking but nothing could be made out. I had a feeling of despair because I couldn't tell if my life was real or this place I was trapped in was real. I couldn't tell if any of my life really existed or if I had always been in the blackness. I was in a state of mass confusion.

I was told I stopped breathing and my sister, brother and wife were trying to keep me from falling out of the chair I was in. My heart rate was dangerously high and I was in a cold sweat when I finally regained some of my senses. In regaining my conscious state I could hear people talking before I could see them. It took me hours before the disorientation would stop. For hours, I was still unsure if my life was real or the blackness was real and would come back. The next day I realized that the one thing I wouldn't let go of when going through the experience was my wife. My conscious was failing me but my heart knew I had someone that I couldn't leave behind.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    A drug called Purple Sticky  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Smoked a drug that should never have been used in that way.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It all felt the same; there was no sense of time or alertness until I came out of it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time stopped and it felt like I was being held down by the blackness. No sense of what was real and what wasn't.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All I could see was blackness other than when I saw flashes of my life gone by.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Muffled, sounded like a hissing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was no transition into anything. It felt like pressure on me and all that was there was blackness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, great sadness, panic, disbelief, confused.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw flashes of moments in my life that had gone passed. It would rush by almost like on a projector. No. Yes, I learned to value things more. Life has more meaning. Life is so rich and not meant to be taken lightly.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Open minded, no one set religious beliefs other than I do believe in God.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I think more about the hereafter and want to understand God and if there is anything coming next.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think more about the hereafter and want to understand God and if there is anything coming next.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value the ones I love so much more. Although I am very disappointed in my brother and sister. I can't believe they would put me at such a risk and feel they don't realize the reality of what happened to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to put what happened into words. There are no words that come close to capturing the experience. There was so much uncertainty along with fear, doubt and mass confusion.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, it scared the hell out of me. It did make me appreciate life more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my wife about it the next day as I was still somewhat confused that night. She was understanding but when I said something about it to others in my family they said I had a bad trip. I do not believe that.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't ever want to go through that again. The fear was so great and the feeling of despair was awful.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was more than just a day dream. It was much bigger than life. You can wake up from a dream; I could not get away from this no matter how hard I would fight. I had no control and I am very in touch with my spiritual being.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   NEVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't think anyone should be reckless with their life. I don't mean sitting in a bubble and not living but I don't think you should take foolish chances to open the door to death before it's your time to go.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I felt this questionnaire was very to the point and understandable.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_r_possible_nde.html