{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_p_icu.html","mytitle":"Michael P ICU Experience 6264","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael P ICU Experience 6264  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael P ICU Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification ICU  			3025 Michael P ICU Experience 6264  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to bed so that I could make Thanksgiving dinner the next day. I lie down and felt sick to my stomach so I went into the bathroom and threw up a great amount of projectile vomiting. The ambulance came and they thought I was having a heart attack. I went into the ambulance passed out and woke up 5 days later. 

 I had Pancreatitis that went sepsis and shut down my kidneys and liver, and my heart stopped. I went into deep fib. My body swelled and my son said that my eye was almost poking out of my head. 

I went, I believe, to HELL. There were giant red dragons. The landscape was dark and eerie. There were people trapped in what looked like circus carts where they transport lions. They were screaming and bleeding. Went into what was a gypsy cart that was blood red in color. It had red streamers from the ceiling. I went outside and ran from the dragons that were chasing me. Then a man riding a gold dragon came by, grabbed me, and took me away from there. Then I was in a room, sitting, talking to my dad who had died in August the same year. He told me to let go of the past and move on with my life. 

Then I was at an airport in the winter with snow blowing. There was a tram with my children inside but it was covered in ice and I could not get in to talk to them.  A grape drink was flowing in a fountain inside the tram for them to drink. I then woke up in the intensive care ward at the hospital. I did have intensive care psychosis. I woke up and thought everyone was trying to kill me. I woke up with my hands tied to the bed so I could not pull the hoses out.

I was on a respirator as I had developed pneumonia while there. The doctors told my son that I only had a 20% chance of survival. I know that prayers from all my friends and relatives helped save me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/23/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Organ failure and Heart stopping.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was never conscious during the experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I woke up 5 days later was in a comma. My experience was over by the time I was alert or conscious

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time was faster; seemed to speed down a time line.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My dream vision was very clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not really hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was aware of my deceased dad and my living children.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was hell; a dark ominous place filled with tortured people and dragons

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear and sadness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I am more concerned with my spiritual well-being and that of others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     believe it was an angel that rode the golden dragon

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     believed went through hell to get  to heaven. The man riding the gold dragon took me out of there

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     saw all the people "I have encountered in my life passing through talking about me some in a  good way some in a bad

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     people talking about what a good man I was and how I was going to be missed. was shown a room had a lot of oriental lamps and a sleigh in the snow where the people were

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I do not take life for granted anymore. I try to make every day count for something. I take my responsibilities more seriously.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to tell; I did have intensive care psychosis. I woke up and thought everyone was trying to kill me. I woke up with my hands tied to the bed so could not pull the hoses out.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Talking with my dad and seeing the people being tortured in those circus carts, was most meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few weeks later when was certain I did not imagine everything. I told the preacher at the hospital who came by. He thought it was a great testimony to share with others. I have had friends ask me about it and it has influenced their beliefs in what happens when we die.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I thought it was part of the intensive care psychosis

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After telling it and thinking about all that happened and reading about other experiences; I believe it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_p_icu.html