{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael K NDE 3856","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael K NDE 3856  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1820 Michael K NDE 3856  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can remember the emergency medical technicians saying I was dead, and discussing the use of charcoal. I was leaving for another place. I do not remember the transition/journey. But I was fully cognizant of the place I was in. I had no sensations, heat, cold, sound, light, touch, not even pain. I felt my eyes were functioning normally. I had no trouble breathing. I felt I was in a place of great sorrow. All was black, as I felt my eyes were working the darkness seemed to go on forever into the distance in all directions. I turned in different directions searching the darkness, listening, but there was nothing. It seemed forever but then light, the lights and the ceiling of the emergency room came into focus. They had revived me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Successful suicide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the void.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the void.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space and time did not exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt my vision was normal but there was nothing to see.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Now that I think of it, I have tinnitus, ringing, but there was no sound in the darkness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sorrow and fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have always practiced a blend of Zen and Christianity, but I see the truth of both more clearly and it turns out to be the same.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have always practiced a blend of Zen and Christianity, but I see the truth of both more clearly and it turns out to be the same.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I see things and people differently, life and reality are different, and everything is different. The façade has been stripped away. I now tell all my children, relatives and friends I love them on a daily basis, and mean it. They do not have to respond in a like manner, and I did not care if they think me to be crazy.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The isolation of the void is beyond description.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Coming back to this world I believe I have been granted a second chance. I see this world clearly now, and the reason we are here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years. They did not want to hear it, seemed to make them uncomfortable.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Elizabeth Kubler Ross? Discussion in psychology class in college.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was sent to a real place because of my actions, it exists, it is beyond time and space and this world, but I know it exists.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same as in the question above, it has not changed. I was in a real place.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was diagnosed as manic/depressive before my rebirth, since then I have stopped all therapy and medication, and am symptom free, to the point I do not believe I ever was in the first place.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_k_nde.html