{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_j_fde.html","mytitle":"Michael J FDE 6859","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael J FDE 6859  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael J FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3428 Michael J FDE 6859  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can say without hesitation that peer pressure, even at the youthful age of nine years placed me in a situation well over my head. While attending a church camp as the guest of a classmate who was also my immediate neighbor, I found myself standing on the end of a dock that jetted out over a natural lake in northeastern Indiana. I was taunted by other campers for not joining them out on a floating deck some forty to fifty feet from the dock. I gave into peer pressure and challenged them to race me from the deck to the floating deck. I couldn’t swim! About three of us jumped into the water and headed out to the deck. It soon became obvious to me that my inability to swim was rapidly becoming obvious as I tired rather quickly and found myself about ten feet short of the deck and ready to go under. As the others reached the deck and climbed aboard, they turned and looked at me, realizing I was struggling. I was able to shout, ‘help me!’ That was the last thing I said before going under. I remember one of the boys yelling back to shore ‘Brother Glenn is drowning’ right as I went under. The same boy jumped into the water and swam to me in an attempt to bring me back to the surface. I recall him reaching out to me, at which point I pushed down on his shoulders to lift myself. That allowed me to surface and very briefly get air before going back under, the whole time keeping my rescuer under water.

As I was under water, I very distinctly remember looking down at this boy and saw total panic in his expression. At that very moment a very audible calm voice said, ‘Mich'l look at what you are doing to him. Relax everything will be fine.’ The voice was so calming and reassuring that I immediately released him. Again, I heard the voice say, ‘Mich'l relax, everything will be fine.’ I no longer panicked. I no longer felt starved of oxygen. Then the water turned a bright yellow becoming incredibly clear. The whole time I felt so warm and so at peace. I was very much conscious during the event but no longer struggling. I was almost in a state of suspended animation, like everything came to a stop for that brief moment. I would say I was under for thirty to forty five seconds, still totally calm and still visualizing the bright yellow light that had accompanied the voice.

The next I know an arm reaches around my neck and takes me to the surface. I somehow knew not to panic and allowed the life guard to assist me. It to this day is fascinating to me that as I was taken to the floating deck that I never once felt although I had just almost drowned. It was like some demonstration or exercise that I had performed. There was no fear or any aspect of it. I climbed onto that deck in perfect shape, not out of breath, not panic stricken, not worried or concerned. I was totally calm. I looked over and saw the swimmer who had jumped in to assist me. He was as white as a sheet, out of breath and in the exact state of shock that should have been in.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Age of nine years old approximately

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other: Panic stricken only  from a near-drowning event.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was always conscious and alert, it’s just that when the voice was heard everything became crystal clear and the most incredible feeling of peace and calm took control of my actions. I had a feeling that the voice was not of this earth but the voice of God and the warmth of Heaven. Psalms 23 says it all. How can I truly put into words something so incredibly wonderful? It was perfect for that very moment when perfect should have been the last word to be used to describe the event.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time no longer mattered. It wasn't even a consideration.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was perfect.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voice, wow, what an incredible thing to have heard. The voice of God is perfect.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I knew I was here. I was just at peace.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Everything was perfect.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Sunday church goer with family.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Rarely attend church anymore

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The event follows my beliefs.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I experienced changes in many life matters.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     See above.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     See above.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     A male voice spoke to me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that I needed to relax.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     See above.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Please read previous statements.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have a calmness I lacked before.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How does one describe what is perfect?

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Like it happened two seconds ago but I could not tell you the name of the lake or what month it occurred in..

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can't really explain this, but yes, I do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I trust in the Lord.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited until I was an adult to tell everyone.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have absolutely no doubt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The bond between me and my children.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_j_fde.html