{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_h_probable_nde_9454.html","mytitle":"Michael H Probable NDE 9454","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael H Probable NDE 9454  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5081 Michael H Probable NDE 9454  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I woke up early on August 19, 2020. I went for a bike ride with a group of friends. I have no memory of leaving the farm that morning with my bike. I have no memory of the events that happened or anything for a 48 per hour period of time.  What I’m telling you is what the group that was with me relayed to me. I fell off my bike and  was sitting up conscious.  They knew something was wrong and they called 911.  As soon as the police officer arrived, my heart stopped and my eyes roll into the back of my head from a cardiac arrest.  Within a few minutes, the emergency medical technicians (EMTs) started to perform CPR and provide oxygen for 34 to 38 minutes. I was deceased and had no heart activity.  Then a one-in-a-billion chance happened - a second EMT group, that was passing by my location, stopped in to see how the first EMT group was doing.  The first groups said that they had lost me, I had passed away, and there was nothing else they could do.

  In the second group, a senior EMT said that he liked the old heart stimulant better than the new one and he had some in his bag. They were in constant communication with the hospital and they said it was outside of protocol to use both stimulants and already had the first one and couldn't us the old one. The Senior EMT, who I call him my angel, said to them, 'The guy is dead.  We’re just basically going to drive him in and go to the morgue. The hospital dispatch said, 'OK give him the second stimulant.' My heart started back up. I have no memory for 48 hours. I didn’t see the light and I didn’t experience the full death experience because I had no memory of that time period.  

But I have three very vivid messages ringing in my head; they seem to come from an angel. The first one was is, 'This is why you came here.' This refers to moving from Nova Scotia 32 years ago.  Otherwise, I would never have been revived.  The second message was, 'You can’t take anything with you.' This is very relevant to me, as am probably one of the most driven individuals and I’m a very materialistic person. The relevant part of the third message was,  'Life is all about love and relationships.' 

After that, my memory returns and I go back to normal. I go back to my driven life feeling lucky to be alive, but now I start to dream of dying. In my dream, I experience the actual act of dying and pass into the most beautiful, most loving, warm, and welcoming place.  This is truly hard to describe but I’ve been listening to a lot of people who have had near death experiences.  It’s exactly like this loving place you can't describe but it’s an incredible feeling. 

 I continued on doing as I always had, working hard trying my best to have more materialistic experiences in life.  Yet, I am at a point where I’m no longer happy or driven by my ego to succeed.  Having more now doesn't make sense to me anymore. I become lost. I know the true meaning of life which is love. I spent two years with a therapist in Boston trying to make sense of it and help me function in life, but all I was doing was working out of my head.  I never connected to my soul.  I knew it was a soulful connection that would provide the true feeling of love I was looking for. I then began to search for the soulful answer. I knew it was the only way. Now my journey and life makes sense and the world has opened up to the wonderful experience it's intended to be. 

  This soulful path is something that was delivered to me from the divine. For the first time in my life, life starts to make sense, unconditional love for yourself and for others is the true human experience. I wake up every day and look at the sky and understand what a miracle we live in. I know that breath, the miracle of life, the miracle that we all experience here in our present form.  I understand the importance of unconditional love for ourselves and for other people in the world is our true purpose. 

  I would consider myself the Wolf-of-Wall-Street kind of person.  Yet, the messages and experience of feeling unconditional love of the divine have forever changed me. I now have a new purpose for my life to learn to give the unconditional love I felt to others  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 19 2020  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         I have amyloid that caused a cardiac arrest  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The messages that I received  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      not aware  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       was  not aware  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     no sense of time  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     not aware  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    not aware  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not sure how I came to the place where I found the unconditional love  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In my dreams  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Most warm loving place that I really can't describe  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       was in total awe of life and what the human experience was  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood the oneness of the universe and how it connects everything  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Was searching for spiritual foundation  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     On a inner soul search for peace and love  

What is your religion now?       Do not know   On a inner soul search  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     it was like, God spoke to me. he said I had my whole life wrong and I needed to learn from the divine  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Possessions are not important  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Three very strong message, like an angel had delivered them  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     connect to the divine  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     the divine is unconditional love  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   to give unconditional love  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     the human experience is all about love and the ultimate goal is give unconditional love to others  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     There is no death the soul is one with the divine  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     Have had so deep connections with people far away  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Most loving experience you can a imagine  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I'm on a path to experience of unconditional love for myself so I can give that to others  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes going through a divorce  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   who sent the messages, hard to explain the place that flowed into that I received the most loving feeling I could ever experience  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  two parts for me the messages I received were Powerful  The feeling of dying and flowing into unconditional love is another  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     can feel how others feel from great distances, much more intuitive  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        unconditional love is the ultimate human experience  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    just recently started to share with friends and family  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     no doubt in my mind  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know how I feel about life is so different since mt NDE  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   not sure  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       lots of other thoughts  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       none at this time         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_h_probable_nde_9454.html