{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael J NDE 7693","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael J NDE 7693  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3952 Michael J NDE 7693  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Upon impact, I was immediately out of my body and observing the accident from about 30 feet above and traveling along with it.  Just as quickly, I was back in my body for the last 20 or 30 feet or so.  The ground of the wheat field was passing by my left shoulder until the car rolled upside down and came to a stop.  I immediately started to get out of the care, when I realized the engine was still running.  So, I got back into the seat to find the key to turn off the engine.  Then I kicked out the back window and climbed out without a scratch, or so I thought.

I caught a ride back to town from a passerby who had seen the crash. I remember them being amazed that I was not hurt.  They kept asking me if I was hurt and if they needed to take me to the hospital.  I had been at a party.  The next day, all the kids and myself went to see the car at the wrecker service.  The wrecker driver came out and asked if we knew the driver.  They all turned to me and said, 'He was!'  The man laughed and said, 'No way!  The person driving this car is either in the hospital in serious condition or dead!'  He then pointed out how the steering wheel was totally bent around the steering post on both sides.  The steering post was bent up and against the dash.  It was then that I felt my chest, and discovered that it was sore, but that is all.

I know that this does not sound like some big, long after-death experience.  But after reliving it over and over, I came to realize that that is exactly what it was.  Even if just for a few seconds, the experience seemed more like minutes to me.  My spirit body literally had to be removed from my body for a time so my broken body could be restored so I could return and live.  That is my only explanation for what really happened. 

I had a good friend who years later was in a serious head-on collision while he and his wife were on vacation in their motor home.  He, though, had the option to leave.  He wanted to go, but he then saw his wife lying unconscious and knew he must return to take care of her.  She ended up taking care of him as a quadriplegic.  His out-of-body experience was identical to mine.

This thing about mortal bodies and spirit bodies is true fact.  My second experience proved it to me:

When I was 27 years old, my wife and I lost our 3-month old baby son to lung disease.  We were travelling in the winter, with his crated casket in the back of our new station wagon.  We were in a blinding, below-zero snowstorm going through Utah.  It was so cold that the heater could not keep our feet warm despite being turned all the way up.  After some time, I asked my wife if her feet were cold.  She replied, 'Yes.  Do you feel it too?'  I said, 'Your back? ' She said, 'Yes.'  For our backs were warm when they should have been the coldest part of our bodies.  All those years ago, and I still tear up as I write about it.  She just cuddled up to me and we said nothing more, until we got to our motel.  Our backs stayed warm all the way into Idaho where we stopped.  We got a two bedroom unit and put his crated casket on the extra bed.

We set out for Washington the next morning to drop off his casket at the funeral home.  The funeral was to take place the next day with family in attendance.  We traveled on to my mother's house, with plans to go back for the graveside service with my mom, step-dad, Uncle, Aunt, and some close cousins. We viewed our baby, then left the funeral home and noticed the warmth was gone.  The day of the graveside service, it was bitter cold and windy.  Everyone else was wrapped in heavy coats, except for myself and my wife.  We were so much in grief that my wife and I did not notice the cold; we were just in our shirt sleeves, while everyone else was shivering in their heavy coats.  Immediately after I dedicated the grave, it was as if my wife and I were immersed into a deep freeze, and we held each other shivering uncontrollably until we got back to the warmth of the car.

I know we are more that just flesh and bone, but it is our spirit bodies that animate the weak mortal flesh and keep us alive.  I know from my out-of-body feelings, that all is well after we leave this mortal body.

I had an earlier experience when I was ten.  In 1952, I underwent successful brain surgery to remove a tumor.  It took eight hours to do back then, but only 2-hours to do today.  I remember watching my surgery from above for a short time and then back again.  It was no big deal as I calmly watched from above.  I've forgotten the details of what they were doing, but seemed to be trying to get my heart going again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other: Should have died, out of body, walked away...  I missed a 90 degree turn and went into a 3-foot embankment doing greater than 90 miles per hour.  I sheared off the embankment and shot into a wheat field for about 50 feet, slowly turned on my side, and was sliding for another 50 feet.  The car rolled once, coming to rest up-side-down on the hood with the rear end sticking up. It was actually more interesting to me than scary.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Observation of the event from 30 feet above.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Just sharper and peaceful, and a feeling of normality!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout it all: I was at peace.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time slowed enough for me to observe what was happening.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Out-of-body and time was slowed down, with a feeling of calm peacefulness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Don't remember hearing anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, peaceful, and calm.  I thought, 'This is interesting.'

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I was aware of my entire life but not in detail.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I just knew what I had to do.  After the experience I joined the Navy.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've been compelled to make better choices in life.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Just an added conformation what and who I am and that I have a purpose...that's all

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It gave me more of a resolve to live a better life free of unclean living and more service to others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Just that I had been there before...in that state.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Just a feeling of reassuredness

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just that I am and I have a spirit body and a mortal body of flesh and bone.  My spirit body animates and gives life to the mortal one.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I just calmly new there was more for me but not just yet.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Only that "All is well."

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Peace is a form of love...which i felt.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm a better person and realized a much more positive life experience because of it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I already have.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     If you consider love and peace a gift, then yes!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        A confirmation of a spirit body and how I am that I am.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They believed me, or so they acted and reacted and sometimes said so.  Some were amazed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It scared me into trying harder to live a good life, putting others first.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It seemed to me to just be a simple explanation of who I was and a better understanding of what I should do.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When I was a 4-year old child, I remember looking at my hands and saying to myself, 'This is really me; this is my hand!'  After the experience, I knew why.  It was because my spirit body came here to receive and give life to my mortal body for a purpose.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Did this experience help give you an understanding of who you are, why you are here, and where you are going?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_j_nde.html