{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael H Probable NDE 4860","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael H Probable NDE 4860  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2468 Michael H Probable NDE 4860  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was adopted into an upper middle class family, with a very hard working father. For what seemed like every day I was told ‘you’re stupid’ and struck or hit. I couldn't connect with people and in high school I was alone. My parents were away in Europe one week and my grandfather stayed over at the house.  One night I decided to escape from all the pain. I took three bottles of contact pain and allergy pills, along with a handful of whatever I could find. I laid back on my bed looking at all my stuff, and I started crying. I sat up for about half an hour debating whether I had made the right choice. I got up and went to the bathroom for water, went back and laid back down on my waterbed with my head at the foot of the bed.

My skin started to feel hot and I began to panic. I tried to lift my head and when my head fell back so did I. I saw my ceiling move away and the sides of darkness move in. At first it seemed to me, I was suspended approximately fifty feet and my thoughts were so fast at that point. I realized my eyes were open up there in the room, and that is when I felt the pulling. I tried to see my body, but every time I looked down, I saw nothing but the blackness of the tunnel wall. The fear was like nothing I ever want to feel again, it was overwhelming. I noticed I was going faster, and my vision rotated so I could see my room, but now it was like a flashlight about a mile away. About that time that I realized that if I saw where I was headed I would be lost.

If you are lucky, you learn a lot of things very quickly.  I heard a voice. A terrible thing that I was told is that Hell is whereby you are cut off.  For instance, you know you were something but can’t remember what.  You know there is more but you can’t remember anything.  An example in your mind could be ‘it’s on the tip of my, wait, what’s a tip? What am I again?’, and this struggle would repeat over and over.  It is like trying to sink your teeth in, to bite, and feeling nothing as if you had a face full of Novocain.

I heard the voice again, and it was so calm.  It said ‘It is not your time to choose. This is a gift, life. You have been selfish’. So many things were told to me at that time. I saw my room light like a far off star. I felt so ashamed and naked to everything. I thought ‘I'm so sorry. I didn't know. Please’. I shot back into my body quickly. Before I knew it I found myself outside, in the hot tub in the rain. I remember throwing up many times.  I told my grandfather I was too sick for school and was off for a week.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Suicide attempt    Other suicide attempt

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the tug, or pulling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that a very long time passed there compared to the same time here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see everywhere, but I was aware I wasn't there with a physical body to look out from.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   raised catholic, but questioned the church too much .......

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   it's real... but no name I  can put to it, (faith/denomination )

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of shame for being so weak.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_h_probable_nde.html