{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_h_nde_6477.html","mytitle":"Michael H NDE 6477","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael H NDE 6477  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3183 Michael H NDE 6477  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was about five, I went with my family to Duluth where we stayed at the Holiday Inn. We went in the indoor pool, and I rode on my teen-aged Uncle Hank's back as he swam around. I fell off his back, and as I sank down, I panicked and was screaming and crying. This caused me to inhale water and I drowned. It was terrible. I started to hear bells ringing and everything got dark.

Suddenly I was floating up in the air over the pool, watching all of the activity and seeing people working on my body. I wasn't afraid but I remember feeling sad because my uncle Hank was crying. I started to notice a bright light up in the corner of the ceiling and I headed toward it, or down through a long tunnel of light and sound. I noticed that the sides of the tunnel were blurred and had all different colors. I heard bells, like phones ringing and large bells gonging. Then I heard a deep voice say, 'No!' and it felt like someone grabbed me by the back of the neck and pulled very hard. It didn't hurt, but I was suddenly being pulled very fast from behind, and I watched the tunnel receding. 

Then I was awake with all of these people standing around the pool staring at me as I lay there. I remember I cried because I was afraid of all the concerned faces looking down at me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in the pool with my uncle and I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  From above, I saw all the chaos with people working on my body.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It seemed very clear and very vivid, not dreamy or blurry.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was during the trip down, or through, the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Things seemed more 'sped up.'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clear straight ahead, and blurry on the sides.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard bells and chimes ringing during the experience. This experience has never been replicated in any way since.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a long tunnel of light with a brighter light at the end. The sides of the tunnel were blurry and I was rushing forward fast. I could hear the wind in my ears as if I were traveling very quickly.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confusion and sadness but no pain or fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was five years old, attended sunday school at the Presbyterian Church with my parents

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   SPIRITUAL, ALITTLE OF EVERYTHING

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was five years old, and didn't have experience with death or the afterlife other than what I heard about heaven in sunday school or that my family might discuss. I didn't know anything about heaven other than angel's flew with wings through the clouds and heaven was waaaay above us.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel like I was given an experience that some people will only have when they die, and I was lucky enough to come back.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   It was a deep, although not scary, voice that said, 'No!' very loudly.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I had hunches and knew things after the event. it's gone away over time, but occassionally I will just " know " things and they are true or will come to pass.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I " knew " I was going somewhere, and I had a feeling of anticipation, but I never found out where I was supposed to go. I just heard " NO " and was pulled back. I don't know if it was from GOD or an Angel or spirit, or the EMT or rescue person that was reviving me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After I drowned I had a sense of 'knowing' things that some people may call psychic, but over time it has diminished.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Uncertain     When I " returned " I began having hunches and I knew things that I shouldn't have. I knew that people or relatives were coming over or bringing certain things, when I should'nt have. I could finish my parents or brothers sentences or would know when they

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     There were no changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I'm trying to describe it the way I experienced it when I was five, which is difficult.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember wanting to share and talk about what happened and my family " humored " me and let me discuss it. I felt like it was something I had to share with others and I was afraid if I didn't I would forget it. It was very vivid for years, now its an old memory and not as clear as it once was.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had very good intuition for years after the event and sometimes still do. Sometimes I just know things. My family accepts this and actually will call and ask me for advice, like whether they should do certain things or not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most significant to me were the bells and ringing sounds.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared it with friends and family. Sometimes I get a raised eyebrow or funny looks.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened and it was exciting and frightening, and I had to tell people about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have always felt that what happened really did happen.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_h_nde_6477.html