{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_h_nde_3853.html","mytitle":"Michael H NDE 3853","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael H NDE 3853  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1819 Michael H NDE 3853  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At 2:24 am, I had been hit from behind by an intoxicated driver. I was in my own vehicle, parked in a freeway lane, conducting police business. The intoxicated driver veered into the lane I was in, even though it had been closed over four miles back, and he struck my vehicle at an estimated eighty mph. I did not see him coming otherwise I probably would have certainly been killed. The impact shoved my vehicle sixty-nine feet and it was in park with the parking brake set. I was knocked unconscious and when I revived, I was lying in an awkward position and a man leaned into the broken window on the passenger side telling me that I had been hit and they were trying to get me out of the car. A fire had broken out upon impact and quick actions of people on the scene put it out and saved me that way. I prayed to GOD to go ahead and take me because I was tired of life and ready to go home but if HE wanted me to stay and fight HIS battles, I would accept that fate. I then lost consciousness once again.

Sometime between that moment and the time I was off-loaded from the medical helicopter at the hospital, I had the out of body near death experience. I was in an atmosphere of absolute white that had no ending anywhere. It was an unending white void. Suddenly, my late parents came to greet me but I do not recall them speaking to me. Other people were there suddenly and I did not recognize any of them. I was at total peace and comfort.

Then, just as suddenly, I was awakened by the gurney that I was upon hitting a bump on the roof of the hospital in which the helicopter had landed upon. I was saddened because I wanted to return to my comfort zone. As I was being treated in the emergency room, I again passed out and went into a coma for two days. During that time, I had the near death experience again and it was similar to the first one. During this time, my family had been told that I would not live through the morning because of my head and internal injuries. The hospital decided not to operate on me because I was too far-gone. I surprised them and hung on through the day and the evening. At 11:30 pm that same day, things were slow and the surgeons decided to operate on me. They repaired my broken neck, back and shoulder, re-sectioned my liver that was torn in half, and worked to reduce the swelling of my brain. By GOD's own hand, I was able to pull through and recovered as much as possible.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/29/2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentCriminal attackDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Serious head trauma and internal injuries.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   While in my vehicle after the accident.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in my vehicle after the accident.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Fuzzy and unfocused.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My late parents and strangers. No communication.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unending white void.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm and relief from life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I go to church weekly now instead of when it is convenient to me. I spread the word of GOD to those who need to be uplifted in spirit and physically.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I go to church weekly now instead of when it is convenient to me. I spread the word of GOD to those who need to be uplifted in spirit and physically.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Life will go on after our death here on Earth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can state something and the television will say it back. I can see into the future somewhat. I can reach others' minds and implant thoughts into their own.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The white void causes me to see that the Heavens are unending.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was a deeply religious man and the experience has caused me to become even more close to God and Jesus. I was deemed to be too damaged to revive and was left to die. GOD explained to the surgeons that I needed the help and that HE had other plans for me. I know that death is a passage and now, I look forward to the day that I joined GOD in Heaven. Death does not frighten me at all and in the past, it had.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_h_nde_3853.html