{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_f_probable_nde_9614.html","mytitle":"Michael F Probable NDE 9614","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael F Probable NDE 9614  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5179 Michael F Probable NDE 9614  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was taken to a very nice garden-like place with fine grass to walk in. There were comfortable, cabin-like structures under a clear blue sky. I saw numerous other people who were friendly. I do not remember much of the conversations, but some were welcoming me. There was a team game while some of the people there were playing on a field.

  I spoke with God and at one point my life seemed to play out very fast.  I was praised for certain actions that were good.  I had the feeling there was more I could do and it would be easy for me to do this.  One person there in a joking way tried to trick me into thinking they were God. Then God played along and said if that were true than they would have known a very special event would happen in the future.  I saw the trickster again at a later time and then the special event happened. It was a great miracle but I didn't really understand what it was and right after it, I knew who the true God was.

  There was a decision about me at some point and it was that I would not stay here now.  Needless to say, I was not please by that but also not upset.  Everything was very clear and alive, more so than any dream I have ever had.    

  Then my experience ended and I began to recover slowly.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/28/2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Seizure.   Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was in a coma and rushed to a hospital where I remained unconscious for 5 days.  It took 2 more days to know where I was.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   Very alert, a clear alertness.   Consciousness was about normal, but I am not real quick.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just after arriving, when I was  shown around and given a place to stay.  When I was introduced to God, he  was joking with some of the people there.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     Events seemed to jump but fast forward,  then slow, and then fast again for maybe 4 or 5 times.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was very sharp and clear.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain.     When I was taken there, it was more like a walkway that was covered and the top was like 20 feet tall. It was not a small tunnel.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was very clear and somewhat on the brigt but not too bright.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place was perfect in every way. There were trees,  grass, blue sky, and cottage-like houses.  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt elated and comfortable. I had no worries. Fear not.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     Everything made sense.  
  
  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events.     Things from my life were shown but not for long or every detail.  
  
  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     There was the final event I experienced but I don't know what it was or how to explain it.  
  
  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I think I had more to do.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I talked with God. He presented as very very intelligent, caring and having a sense of humor.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian.   I have always tried to live like Jesus would approve. I help others and pray with gratitude and for help.  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had a sense that I am getting wiser.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   When God speaks, his voice is so clear and well-defined. Others who speak, their tone is clear.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I am not sure if God was Jesus. I was in awe though and decided to think of God.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I felt like I was back. People there welcomed me back, like I was a part of a team.  
  
  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Like a continuing story; an adventure each time.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God is great, friendly to me and has a sense of humor.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There was a sense of knowing how I did some thing thar God thought was good.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Like each time is a learning.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Fear not. There is a continued life and the people there are good.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     This time I experienced war for some reason.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I don't know how to explain it.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I am sure to fear not.  

  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm a bit more considerate.  I have told several people to 'Fear Not'.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I can not recall all that happened in the experience.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    after a month I told my Doctor. No reaction.  I told my son who was somewhat interested.  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The experience was so clear and real, like nothing that I ever experienced in my 77 years.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     The experience was so clear and real, like nothing that I ever experienced in my 77 years.   
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have written it out as clear as I can.  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You covered it pretty good.               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_f_probable_nde_9614.html