{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2100","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n8_sep_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N8 September 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. VllI.] [SBPTBKBBB, 18M.
JOURNAL
OJ!' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COB'l'BB'l'S.
PAGB PAGB
A C- of J!8IIIl8ric RIIPfJOrt •• •• •• 188 ISpecimens of the CluaIlI.catlon of Cuea
for .. PbaDtumI of the LtYIDgw.. •• 141
A OASE OF MESMERIC RAPPORT.
We have received the following very interesting account of some
experiences in mesmeric rappOTt, from Mrs. Pinhey, 18, Bassett
Road, Ladbroke Grove Road, London, W. :-
I have been asked to write down what I can remember of a very
curious experience in mesmerism or a.nima.1. magnetism, which I under-
took and carried on for many months, more than 30 years ago.
The difficulty of doing this accurately after so great a lapse of time
is, I am aware, very great; and, unfortunately, the diary which I kept
for the greater part of the time is of the most meagre description, and
can scarcely be said to do more than record the fact of the seances
1w.ving been carried on daily with little intermission from the beginning
of March, 1850, all through the summer of that year, until the end of
October, when I left home for several weeks.
On my return they were recommenced, and it was during that'
winter that the most remarkable thought-readingphenomena occurred;
but I seem, meanwhile, to have discontinued my diary altogether, so
that, though the main facts are so impressed on my memory that I can-
not forget them, I feel the necessity for extreme caution in relating
them,:having nothing but my memory on which to depend-not even the,
occasional hints which, in the diary of the previoussummer, have helped
to bring back some circumstances to my mind, to fix the dates of others,
and to show the general rate of progress in the experiments, which I had
imagined to be much less gradual than it really was.
The history of my attempt may be told in a few words. Early in the
summer of 1849, I happened, with my family, to attend a. lecture on
mesmerism, as-applied to the art of healing, given in the Town 1Lill by a
Mr. Beattie. There were, as usual on such occasions, very curious and
wonderful phenomena. exhibited, and there was also a good deal of incre-
dulity expressed by some of the audience; for we are speaking now of
34 years ago, and people's minds were as yet unaccustomed. to such
wonders. What struck me most, however, was the lecturer's repeated
assurance that he did not ask us to belien him. "Go," he said, "and
Digitized by Google
134 Jot/rnal of Society .101' P8ychical Re&eal'cl,. [Sept., 1884.
-----
make the experiment for yourselves. Most of you, if you tried fairly
and without prejudice, could produce effects that would astonish your-
selves."
I was a girl fresh from school, where we had been encouraged to
take an interest in experimental science. I did not know much, but I
had learned enough to feel sure there was lOuch still to be discovered
and learned in the world, and what could be fairer than the lecturer's
challenge 1 Moreover, I had a near relation suffering from epilepsy, and
though this, we were warned, was a form of disease most difficult to
treat, the subjects of it being frequently unaffected by mesmerism, yet,
as cures were sometimes effected, there could be no harm in the attempt,
and if successful, the result would be worth any sacrifioo of time and
patience.
Accorcihtgly, with the consent of my parents, I determined to try ;
and on the 11th June, 1849, the following entry appeared in my
diary :-" Mr. Beattie called, and shewed me about mesmerism. He
also lent me a book." This book was a little volume called" Mesmerism,
and its Opponents," by the Rev. George Sandby, and two days later I
procured it for myself, and studied it diligently during a short absence
from home, which occurred at this time.
Meanwhile, on the 11th, and two following days, I made unsuc-
cessful attempts on my patient E. Then followed the absence already
mentioned, but on July 3rd I resumed my efforts and persevered in
them daily for nearly six weeks without success. On August 10th I
discontinued them, and wrote for advice to Mr. Sandby. I presume that
his allSwer received on the 14th was discouraging, for I made no further
attempt at that time.
I was absent from home a good deal during that winter, 1849-50,
and it is not till March of the latter year that the subject reappears in
my diary. On the 5th of that month there is an entry, the first of a
long series of similar ones, "l\fesmerised M. N. again." I concll1de
that the attempt having produced no very decided result, was not
noted, as I cannot find any allusion to it.
My experiment of the previous year on E. having f~iled so com-
pletely was a great discouragement to me, and I pondered the matter a
good deal, and debated during my absence whether it would ever be
worth while to renew the attempt. .
I cOllSidered, however, that one failure on my part should not be
allowed to discredit entirely all the wonderful cures and phenomena of
various kinds observed by others, and the words of the lecturer still
sounded in my ears and urged me not to give up until I had made one
more attempt, under less unfavourable circumstances. I had not long
returnei home when I became acquainted with Miss M. N., who was a
parishioner of my father's.
'Sept., 1884.] Journal oj Society for P8ycltical Researcl,. 135
. ,
She and her sister lived together on very small means, their circum-
lItances having been much reduced at the time of the death of their
:parents, and M. was dreadfully afBicted with a chronic kind of St.
Vitus' dance, besides other ailments.
I visited her frequently, and as I looked on at her never-cea.sing
movement, her mouth and eyes twitching and her whole body jerking
up and down from morning till night, to such an extent that she could
not even feed herself, it occurred to me that hers was a fitting subject
for mesmerism. What a boon would an hour or two of perfect rest be
to such a person! At any rate, I would talk to her about it, and make
~ nex.t attempt on her, if she would consent to my doing so.
She had become very foud of me during our intercourse, and I had
no difficulty in persuading her to a.llow me to do anything I liked to
her; but some of her friends objected at first, having a sort of idea that
mesmerism was a "black art," and not to be meddled with. My
father's opinion, however, as clergyman of the parish, and my own repu-
tation as the clergyman's daughter, prevailed so far th~t I was allowed
to proceed without active opposition. -
At this time I had no expectation of any marvellous results. I did
hope that I might succeed in quieting her nerves and muscles, and
giving rest, if not sleep, for a few hours every day, and that this rest
might have a beneficial effect upon my patient's health. But though I
expected nothing, I was prepared for anything, i.e., I was fully im-
pressed with the necessity of keeping my own nerves quiet and un-
moved under any circumstances. I rather dreaded than hoped that
things might happen to "astonish me ;" but, if they did, I was pre-
pared to look at them with as much calmness and philosophy as I could
command.
I think it was on the secondocca.sion, that, viz., of March 5th,
noted in my journal, that I succeeded in inducing the mesmeric sleep,
a state at that time of perfect repose, not unlike natural sleep-except
that the muscles remained rigid enough to keep my patient sitting up-
right leaning back in the chair. She showed no disposition to lie down.
In this condition I left her, at first with directions to her sister not
to touch or disturb her until she awoke of herself, which she did in
about an hour.
As time went on, however, and the mesmeric influence gained
greater power over her, I found it better to stay with her for an hour
or two and wake her before I left. Otherwise she seemed never to
awake quite perfectly, but remained for some hours in a dreamy state
after the actual sleep had left her.
I cannot recollect, however, exactly the time when this change w:l.8
made, but it must have been very early. in the course of seances, be-
Digitized by Google
136 Journal 0/Society/or P8ychical Re8earcn. .[Sept.,l8M.
cause on the 13th, after a week in which I had visited her every day,
I find, in addition to the usual entry, "Mesmerised M. N.," the word
"Discoveries," and that my mother was present, so that I must then
have remained with her during the sleep.
The" Discoveries" and "New Discoveries" entered on the 14th,
referred to phenomena. which, happening to myself in this way, with
every possible guarantee for their perfect truth and reality, necessarily
made a great impression on all our minds. They were, it is true, only
the introduction to a series of much greater wonders, but, being the
first, they surprised and startled us almost more than those which
came :;iter.
The first unusual appearance that presented itself was a sort of
magnetic attraction towards myself. I noticed that whenever I moved
about the room to fetch a book or my knitting, or perhaps to eat some
biscuits or sandwiches (for I often took m'[luncheon with me to save
time), her face turned towards me. I tried, by way of experiment, to
get quite behind the chair on which she sat, with her eyes closed and
quite still up to this time; but she shuflled about in her seat and made
every effort to turn round so as to face me. Presently her arm stretched
itself out with a ·mechanical kind of motion and pointed at me wherever
I moved. About this time, too"she began to talk.
Her voice and manner of speaking when asleep were much more
animated and decided than when awake. Instead of a poor, weak,
~valid kind of creature, she became quite a clever, aniniated talker.
Instead of the humility and self-depreciation of her waking hours, she
appeared quite pltlased with herself and confident in her own opinions.
It was very curious to watch her, with her eyes always shut, and her
forehead rather pressed forward, as if that were the seat and medimn
of both sight and understanding. Sometimes she nipped her brows and
a puzzled look came over her face, and then a bright smile seemed to
show that all was clear again. But this is rather anticipating, for at
. first she spoke little and rather hesitatingly, except in answer to ques-
tlollS which I soon began to put to her.
" Why do you point at me, Mary 1"
Mary: "0, I don't know, but I feel as if I wanted-wanted to gel;
near you. It is very funny, suc~ a funny feeling. r can't. help it.
Now, you are not angry, are you 7"
The last sentence she very often used with a deprecating air and
voice.
Meanwhile the attraetion became stronger every day till it caused
her to stand upright and walk after me; a thing she could not do when
awake, and had not done for many months or even years.
All this, of course, interested me extremely, and my mother and
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1884.] Journal of Societyfor Psychical Resea#·ch. 137
father occasionally went with me to see the marvels I reported, and
satisfy themselves of their reality. I thought, however, that all this
wa.lking about and general excitement might not be so good for my
patient. as a quieter rest would be. Besides, the clinging to me was
rathertroublesome and difficult to arrange for, so when her attentions
in this way became too pressing, I told her rather peremptorily to go
back to her chair and sit down, which, with some difficulty and exertion,
she at last managed to do-sighing a little and begging me not to be
angry with her, 80S she would do always what I wished if she possibly
could, but it was very hard, &C.
After that I found that she would always obey any command I gave
her; a.nd though I never tried her to that extent, I believeshe would have
hopped on one leg if I had ordered her to do so.
By degrees, as time went on, I noticed that the attraction became
fainter. I cannot now remember how much time elapsed before a new
phase of the mesmeric statebegan to show itself. I noticedthatonthe30th
March my father went with me "to see the wonders I reported," and
on the 7th April the ~ance is marked 80S "very successful," but I think
that both these entries must refer to the first phase, viz., the attraction
already described.
It was, however, about this time or a little later that after a few
quiet uneventful days, 80S I W80S sitting at work or reading in the same
room with her, I observed that I)I1Y little movement of my hands or
feet was being repeated in a mechanical kind of way by my patient.
As I worked, her right hand went up and down as if using her needle.
If I moved my finger or thumb, hers moved too. If I -lifted my hand
to my face hers attempted immediately to follow the motion; and she
then began also to 8oSSOCiate herself with me in her speech-" This
work tires us very much, doesn't it, dear 7"--or if I wagged my finger
experimentany and well out of her sight (supposing she could see),
she would say, "WeIll 1 don't know why we shoulli make this poor
finger work so hard, wag, wag, it is quite laughable."
This sort of thing, which I shall call "sympathy," went on for
some time, increasing in intensity 80S the "attraction" had done, and
then slowly dying out as before, till it gave place to new and still
more wonderful phenomena.
That is to say the mere outward mechanical expression of sympathy
wore out; but all the succeeding phenomena. may be classed under the
same head. The influence only went deeper and affected by degrees
more important organs, the senses, and finally the brain itself.
Itwas some timein that summer that I was sitting or standing nearthe
window of her room, eating the cake or sandwich or whatev.er my lunch
consisted of that day. "M." W80S in the mesmeric sleep, but had been
Digitized by Google
138 Journal of Sock-tv for PIJyc!lical Research. [Sept., l884.
less interesting than usual for some days. I was not watching hep
particularly, when rather a curious sound attracted my attention. I
looked at her, and saw that she was apparently eating something very
nice, munching away and enjoying the taste extremely.
" What have you got there, Mary 7" I said.
" Oh! Why of course you know. We--we are eating our lunch,
and it is very nice. We have got some cake to-da.y, and it is very
good."
"That is right; then we will have some more." So saying I went to
the little corner cupboard where I always deposited my luncheon and
took, not cake this time, but a piece of dry bread.
" Well, yes, bread is very good, but it is not so nice as the cake.
We must not be discontented; but there is plenty more cake-why
don't we eat it 1 Ah, I know," with a laugh of triumph, "you think
I can't taste it; but that is nonsense. Of course we eat together," and
so on. I tried her in all kinds of ways, tasted salt, and then sugar,
then pepper, and did my best to puzzle her, but she never hesitated or
made a mistake. .
I find in my journa.l various entries during this summer, showing
the names of several persons who witnessed the facts I am relating.
Amongst them, on May 21st, is that of Dr. H., a local celebrity,
who lived next door to us, and was an intimate friend of my father's.
He had formerly, at the request of the latter, seen" M. N." more than
ORce, and now, on the 20th, he had been brought by my father to visit
her again, and had confessed, though much prejudiced against mesmer·
ism, that her health was certainly improved.
The next day, however, when he came on purpose to see the
wonders my father had described to him, the seance was a failure.
The sleep took place as usual, but the patient remained apparently
dumb. Whether the fact of his incredulity had, or could have any
direct effect upon the patient, I cannot, with my limited experience,
decide; but I am inclined to suspect tha.t the failure was due to my
nerves being upset by tho knowledge that the doctor had come on pur·
pose to criticise. I know that I was extremely anxious that he should
see the things which I saw day after day, and be convinced that at any
rate I and my whole family were not the credulous fools he secretly sus-
pected us of being, but that appearances, at any rate, justified our belief.
This anxiety, and the nervousness produced by it, were, I believe, the
sole cause of failure.
No one (except perhaps my mother, who went very often) ever saw
my patient at her best, the same cause operating, only in a less degree,
whenever the seance was in any Way made a medium of sight-seeing.
And this leads me to remark that whenever I hear of a lecturer on
Digitized by Google
Sept.,l884.] Jom·nat of SociPtu for P8ychical Re8ent·cl,. 139
this and kindred subjects failing occasionally to produce the promised
results, hooted offthe stage, probably, by a crowd of indignant sightseers,
it is to me an additional testimony to the genuineness of his ex-
periments.
When these results are produced by trickery, or mechanism, they
can be repeated any number of times with perfect precision and regu-
larity; but when they come to us as the effect of experiments having to
do with unknown or unexplained forces, we must expect to be often
hamed, not knowing fully the conditions under which those forces act.
With occasional interruptions, varying from a day or two to a week
or two, the seances were continued daily all through the summer, and
were witnessed by several persons at different times, besides the members
of my own family. I find the names of seven people, many of whom
are still living, who were present-some of them more than once-either
in that summer or the winter following.
I cannot now remember whether any real "thought-reading" had
begun before I left home for several weeks on October 24th. That
it did so very shortly after my return is certain, from the following cir-
cumstances, which,though of a private nature, must be mentioned in order
to make the rest of my story intelligible.
It was during this absence that I became engaged to be married
to a gentleman belonging to the Indian Civil Service. Circumstances
made it expedient at the time to keep the matter quiet, and it was
knownonly to my parents and immediate relations. The gentleman had
gone to India. immediately after our engagement, and I returned home
to my usual occupations as if nothing had happened. Noone in the
town knew anything about it then, or till some weeks afterwards, yet I
had no sooner malpletised my patient than she began talking as if all
the facts were perfectly familiar to her. " India is a long way off, isn't
it, dear ~ I wish we could be nearer home, but, of course, if he is there
we must go too." In fact for months she could talk of little else when
mesmerised, and knew my husband's name, a.ge, and appearance, but
was as ignorant as the rest of the world when in her natural state.
Gradually this knowledge of all that I knew became more and more
complete, and, accustomed as I was by this time to such marvels, she
sometimes fairly astonished me. One day she suddenly burst out
~~"~~a~~~~~~~~~~
stairs !" I looked up, "What are you ta.lking about 1 When do you
mean ~" "Why, you know, this morning, and dear papa was waiting;
he doesn't like us to be late for prayers. But we only just wanted
to finish that sentence." My curiosity was thoroughly aroused now,
and r inquired, "Wha.t sentence~" "Why,the German book-Schiller,
.wasn't it~" It was perfectly true, though the fact had made but a slight
Digitized by Google
140 Journal oj Societu jor Psychical Research. [Sept.. 1884.
impression upon me, and I had certainly not thought 01 it a.ga.in until
thus reminded of it, that I had been reading German upstairs that
morning until the prayer bell rang, and then, lingering for a moment to
finish a sentence, I had rushed hastily downstairs to avoid being late.
This and other phenomena of the sa.me kind puzzled me a great
deal; not the fact of her knowing what I knew, for with that idea I
was by this time familiar; but the thing which I could not understand
was her brain being acted upon by such apparently trifting occurrences.
I could perceive that things which had deeply impressed my brain
might be repeated in hers as the deflections of one needle are repeated
by another at the opposite pole of the electric current. When I asked
her a question, my brain probably gave the answer which hers re-
peated, but why did she spontaneously drag up little things which I had
forgotten 7 Sometimes she even introduced little conversations be-
tween my father and mother which had taken place in my
presence. "Dear mamma was vexed," she began one day,
and then came particulars of some little argument between
my father and mother, which I had heard at the time but had
never thought of again, and certainly never repeated. I have often
thought over this difficulty since, but cannot in the least explain it ex-
cept upon the supposition that certain th~ do impress our brs.ins more
strongly than others. although we may be unconscious of the fact. It
is a line of inquiry which I should think might be worth pursuing in
the interests of physical science, if any physician of note could so far
shake oft' all prejudice as to make experiments for himself.
I have only a few more wonders to relate, and they are all of the
same kind. One day,during the winter, I was sitting by the fire opposite
to my patient, and, to pass the time,instead of working on this occasion,
I bad a. book. I have forgotten what it was, except that it was a novel,
one of Dickens', I think. Suddenly she began to laugh. I looked up
and saw her with her eyes shut as usual, but her head moving as if
reading with her forehead, and her mouth smiling. "What are you
laughing at 7" "Why at the story, of course." "What story 7" And she
told me what I wasreadingabout,making her coJDJrients on thecha.racters
and expressing her amusement at some passages, and her sorrow at any-
thing pathetic which I came to in the course of my reading. I asked her
the page, and she told me. I asked her whereabouts onthe page certain
passages were, and shetoldme that also. I tried her with written letters,
and figures, and put her power to all kinds of tests, and the result a.lways
was that she knew what I knew but nothing beyond. She was never
what is popularly known as clairvoyante.
I mention this particularly, because it was a. point which T took
great pains to ascertain, and several times when I .asked her questions
Digitized by Google
Sept.,l8St.] Journal 01 Societylor P8.1/cltical RC8earch. 141
about people and things at a distance her answers were so decided, auel
her knowledge apparently,.so minute and circumstantial, that I was
very nearly deceived into believing it to be true. But on every occasion
of the sort I found, on inquiry, that truth and fiction were mixed up
together. Everything which I knew myself was true. But the particular
facts which were happening at the moment, and which she described as
if she saw them, were purely imaginary.
One remarkable instg,nce in illustration of this I will relate. It
happened during the summer, or early spring, of 1851. 1\1y man"ieel
sister, with her husband and children, were expected at a vicarage lline
or ten miles off,. to pay a visit to his father. I knew this, and was,
therefore, not surprised when we began to talk about it. Here, I
thought, is a gooel opportunity to test her clairvoyance, so I said, "Oh,
yes, we knew they were to come to-day, but have they anived 1 Look
and tell me 1" After a short pause she began in rather an excited
way, "Yes, yes, I see them all just getting out of the carriage."
"Whom do you see1" I asked. "I see Mr. -- and Mrs. -- and the
nurse, and so many children. They are going into the house, into the
drawing-room on the left of the hall." She· then de.ribed the
vicarage, the drive up to it, and many other particulars with what
I knew to be perfect accuracy, and her whole story was so likely, so
much what I expected to happen, that I was quite prepared to have
-the whole confinned on inquiry. But it was not so. In the first place,
"'the train had been late, and the party did not arrive until an hour or
-two later; and, in the second place, my brother-in-law was detained at
his own vicarage, many miles away, and never at"rivecl at all at that
time.
On another occasion, some infonnation she gave me about 1\11'. ---,
in India, though very li,kely and plausible, turned out to be incorrect.
Her thought-reading was always perfect, but the clairvoyance
always failed when accurately tested; and though r know how fallacious
an opinion based on one experiment must often be, and also that there is
plenty of good evidence for the tru~h of clairvoyance, I have sometimes
speculated whether, if any apparent case of clairvoyance were accu-
rately inquired into, it would not often be found to have its origin in
" thought-reading."
Towards the end of the summer of 1851, I gave up magnetising
"M." as a regular thing. Her health was much improved, and she liveel
for many years afterwards, only occasionally troubled with the St.
Vitus' dance, at which times my mother or one of my sisters took my
place, and generally succeeded in quieting her.
It was rather a trouble to me that after the first few weeks I
scarcely saw "M." in her natural state. She was so sensitive to my
Digitized by Google
1-12 Journal Qf Societ!1 for P8ychical Research. [Sept.. 1884_
presence that before I entered her room she was already half gone, and
it was only at the end of each seance when, with much difficulty, by-
means of upward passes, fanning, and other expedients I had succeeded
in waking her, that I could communicate with her real self. I hoped
that my long absence in India, eight years, would han worn out this.
influence; hut when at last I returned home and went to see her, I found
her alrcady lapsing into the trance, and had great difficulty in keeping-
her out of it during my yisit. I believe that a more experienced and
skilful operator could have prevented this in the beginning, and through-
out the course it was always a subject of regret to me.
M. A. P.
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
V.
Those who have given any serious attention to psychical researcli
will certainly not need to be told that its various branches of inquiry
are by no means isolated, but touch each other and mingle with each
other in a variety of ways. The phenomena inosculate, and the causes.
are interfused. And consequently the lines of division between one of
our books and another are necessarily somewhat arbitrary. Were we·
possessed of complete knowledge of the subject we could not survey it·
in separate provinces without signalising between each province large
belts of debateable ground.
And since, in fact, our knowledge of the whole matter is as yet of a.
quite rudimentary and superficial kind, it bellows us, therefore, to re-
member that, at the very most, all that we can hope to do is to con-
struct a Linnrean rather than a natural system. 'Ye cannot expect to- ,
trace the true filiation of our complex phenomena from their supersensory
origins, but at most to get hold (as Linnreus did) of certain deeply-seated
and constant characters which may, in many cases, be found ultimately
more or less closely coincident with tile groups in which a complete
knowledge may ultimately dispose the multiform narratives with which
we deal.
The cases of scenes flashed on the mind, with which we have been
dealing in these papers, afford a conspicuous illustration of this inter-
mixture of psychical agencies. The idea of clain'oyance as possibly
operative in the presentation of some of these phantasmal scenes, has
probably presented itself to most of our readers.
Clairvoyance, however, as commonly understood, can scarcely be
claimed as a form of telepathy. It seems, at first sight, to be rather an
Digitized by Google
Sept.,1884.], Journal of Societ!1 for PS!lchical Re8earch. 143
extension of the powers of some one individual mind than the result
of any communication from another mind; rather a sublimated I~Y1JerreB­
thesia than a part of what we have been postulating as telaistluJBia,
induced by impact from without. Yet the history of clairvoyance, if
rightly considered, is one of the most striking illustrations of the far-
reaching importance of telepathic agencies. Clairvoyance was for a
long time known as a phenomenon of spontaneous, morbid origin.
It was connected mainly with somnambulism, or with different forms of
sleep-waking and double consciousness, and it might certainly have been
taken as the very type of a physiological state incommunicable by
infection or contact.
Incommunicable byinfection of the ordinaryphysical kind it assuredly
is. There are no bacilli luci/eri, no germs of lucidity, which convey the
capacity of distant vision from man to man. But inexcitable by
contact, surprising to say, it is not. It was one of the most startling
discoveries of the early days of mesmerism that the passes which were
thought of as conveying "vital fluid," and as effective in stilling pain,
or producing salutary crises in disease, did also sometimes produce a
smte of "cerebral lucidity," in which the ordinary range of the senses
seemed to be altogether transcended. This was a discovery made not
only without the discoverers' intention, but almost against their will;
for they foresaw (what was, in fact, the case) that the additional
incredulity provoked by these new pretensions would prejudice the
cause of curative mesmerism in which they were mainly interested.
Their great difficulty was that this new power could hardly be repre-
sented as an extension of the power already claimed for mesmeric
passes, i.e., of communicating to one organism either the general vital
condition or the actual sensations of another. If I mesmerise a patient
and cure his headache, it may be said that I have but transferred to
his nerves something that was already in my own. And if he developes
community of thought or sensation, if he knows what I have in my
pocket, or tastes what I place on my tongue, this may still be called a
mere extension of the sympathy established between the two nervous
systems. But if I mesmerise my patient and he proceeds to tell me
what is going on in the next house, or in a house fifty miles off,-things.
which neither he nor I can know by ordinary means,-we seelD to have
made a leap into magical wonders quite unconnected with our previous.
theory of nervous communication.
Now just the same difficulty which met the mesmerist meets the
psychologist who is attempting to explain by telepathy the phantasmal
perception of distant scenes. It gradually becomes hard to maintain
that the distant scene IS a mere picture transferred from some other
mind. In certain cases the analogy with mesmeric clairvoyance becomes
Digitized by Google
144 Jourllal qf Socicf,1f for PS.I/chical Rescarch. [Sept., 1884.
so close that it seems plain that whatever explanation is invoked for the
one must be invoked also for the other.
\Vell then, with our minds open to the possible need for fresh
hypotheses, we return to the point of bifurcation already noted in our
discussion of scenes dashed on the mind. We have traced those scenes
in one dit'eCtion already;-D.B they beca.me more panoramic, more
pictorial, more limited in extent, and in this way more analogous- to
ordinary three-dimensional percepts. We ha.ve now to trace them
along another line, and to watch them becoming more real, more pro-
longed, more complex, till they suggest, not the mere presence of some
new object in the percipient's field of view, but rather the transference
of the percipient's own point of observation to some distant field.
Here, as elsewhere, we shall find various steps of transition. And
inasmuch as the novelty which is here introduced consists of some
apparent psychical action on the percipient's own part, it will be
convenient to seek for abnormalities in ltis conditiOn, and consider whe-
ther there is any profound agitation, or any abnormally deep absorption,
which may seem to have set free his own psychical energies to travel
along some unknown way.
In this connection Dr. Goodall Jones' case, as given ill Proceedings
II., will at once occur to us; when the sick woman's delirium seemed
to have quickened her telepathic perception of her distant husband's
danger. And we will cite a parallel case, where the percipient's
nervous disturbance is more chronic and deep-seated.
From the Rev. Henry W. Harden, Hemsby Vicarage, Great Yarmouth.
May 10th, 1884.
About two years ago an elderly woman in this parish, named Elizabeth
Cubitt, was drawing near her t\nd with faculties and memory impaired by a
long illness, one feature of which was the nervous ailment called St. Vitus'
dance.
A grandson, aged 18, was at sea in a fishing boat. One morning she
declared that she knew he was drowned for she had seen him in the water,
And she strongly persisted in the statement. About three days afterwards
the lad came home and related in explanation of the wet clothes he brought
back how, in a storm, he had been washed overboard by a wave and washed
back by the next wave into the boat. The date of the event coincided with
that of the grandmother's dream or vision.
HENRY W. HARDEN.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Harden says ;-
At the time of the occurrence which I narrated about Mrs. Cubitt, I was
visiting her pastorally, and at one of my visits heard the facts from hergrand-
daughter (now Laura Chaney), an intelligent and respectable young woman,
who was nursing her grandmothet, and to whom the remark was made.
Before writing to you I verified my memory by asking Laura Chaney to
tell me the story again as she remembered it. Her impreBBion was that it
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1884.] Journal 0/ Society/or P8,ckicnl Re8earck. 145
was a dream, but from Mrs. Cubitt'l ltate at the time I hardly think it could
be said with certainty whether Ihe was awake or aaleep. My impreBlion was
that it was IOmething di1ferent from a dream-from the way in which (as it
was told to me) Ihe had said, "I saw him in the water," instead of saying
" I dreamt that I saw him."
I don't think Ihe was particularly lubject to alarms. Laura Chaney says
that when Edward Barnes, a relative, died, Mrs. Cubitt knew of it before
the newl came, and insisted that IOmething had happened, but ahe could
give no further details nor could ahe lpecify other instancel.
This case is not one of which the details can be pressed. But it
may serve to mark a step in the argument; and it may be reinforced
by the celebrated historical case which we next cite; the vision of the
poor fishwife with St. Vitus' dance thus forming our closest parallel to
the royal historian's "avertissement que Dieu donne aux personnes
illustres."
From the Mimoiru de Marguerite de ValoW. Reine de Navarre.
La reine, ma mhre, lltoit a Metz, dangereusement malade de la fihvre.
Elle ~voit, et lltant aBBiatlle autour de IOn lit du Roi Charles, mon frere, et
de ma lteur et mon frhre de Lorraine, et plusieura MeBBieura du Conseil,et de
force dames et princellel, qui, la tenant hora d'espllrance, ne l'abbandonoient
point, I'llena, continuant Bel reveries, comme Ii elle eut vu donner la bataille
de J amac : "Voyez comme il fuyent; mon fils a la victoire ; he Mon Dieu !
relevez mon fill, il elt par terre: Voyez VOUB dans cette haye Ie Prince de
Condll mort I" ToUB ceox qui Iltoit1a croyoient qu'elle revoit. Mail 1a nuit
aprea, M. de Lopez lui en ayant aporte la nouvelle, "Je Ie savoia bien," dit·
elle, "ne l'avois je pas vu avant·hier 1" Lora on reconnut que ce n'lItoit point
riverie de fihne, mail un averUalement que Dieu donne aox peraonnel
illultre&.
These instances have not yet taken us quite beyond the analogy of
our non·mesmeric cases of experimental Thought-transference. In some
of these the perception was accompanied (and seemingly facilitated) by
a kind of nervous, agitation, slight, indeed, but bearing some analogy
to the spasmodic movements of chorea or the inconsequent impulses of
delirium.
Again, this tendency to excitement is not the only way in which the
percipient of these phantasmal scenes has tended to become slightly
abnormal. Attentive scrutiny of the cases already given will show
that there has been a proneness to sudden and brief accesses of drowsi·
ness, just at the moment when the scene was about to appear. Now
our usual way of explaining this fact would be to say that the impres-
sion waited till a. casually occurring drowsiness dulled the competing
trains of thought, and gave opportunity for the telepathic impact to rise
into consciousness.
But it can never be amiss, in these obscure mattera, to scrutinise our
Digitized by Google
146 Journal of Societgfor P8gcMcai Research. ![Sept., l8IW.
theory afresh, and to consider whether these interchanging causes and
effects can be looked at in a new aspect. Is it conceivable that the tele-
pathic impact can ever be the caU88 of the drowsiness 1 That it in some
way hypnotises the percipient, and thus succeeds in forcing itself into his
consciousness 1 To give weight to this view, we should need instances.
of very exact coincidence between the actual enaction of the primary
scene, and the sudden drowsiness in which its secondary image is dis-
played. Or we should need to observe accesses of drowsiness as marked
and abnormal, as in the following case :-
., Der jetzige Spiritismus." Prof. Dr. Maximilian Perty, Laipzig, 1877.
p.291.
Dr. Notter (a friend of Dr. Perty's) describes a clairvoya.nt cousin of his
as one of the most sober·minded, prosaic, thoroughly unimaginative men he
knew, for which reason he did not caro to say much about his clairvoyant
experiences. When in 1869 his eldest son was accompanying the expedition
in Mexico as army surgeon, the father was, on one occasion in the forenoon,
suddenly overcome with an irresistible inclination to aleep. He was a man
extremely exact in his work, was never lIAlCustomed to aleep in the forenoon,
and was then engaged on official accounts. During this aleep, which, accord·
ing to the testimony ofattendants who were present, could not have lasted
more than a minute and a.half, the father saw the IOn, pale, and leaning
Blainat the side of a narrow paBI; his horae, which was a greyone, was close
by, and also several military officers. He wasgreatly terrified at what he had
seen, but in order not to alarm his family, said nothing to anyone, but
satisfied himself with noting the day and hour. After three or four weeks a
letter came from the son in which he described how at that very time he had
been thrown from his horse, and as he was again attempting to mount he
received a kick which broke one of the bllnes in his foot. The pain had made
him almost faint away, so that he was obliged to lean against the side of the
roadway, but he soon reco\'ered from the accident without any permanent
ill effects. A later letter oonfirmed all particulars and mentioned that the
doctor was actually riding a grey horae.
Our data here are still insufficient. But we have at least found a.
definite inquiry to pursue, viz.: Are momentary fits of drowsiness, in
which distant events are observed, ever provably coincident to the very
minute with those events 1 If they are so, there will be ground to
suspect that the drowsiness is of a quasi.mesmeric character, in some
way induced by the distant agent's excitement, and a necessary pre-
requisite to the telepathic perception.
It would be very desirable in this connection to ascertain whether
spontaneous somnambulists are ever conscious of distant crises. Cases
of this sort would be very welcome; at present we can only give two;
nor is it quite clear what the percipient's condition precisely was in
either of them.
Digitized by Google
Sept.,l884.] Journal Qf Society for Psyc!lical Research. 147
3, Mclean Place, Dumbarton, January 8th, 1883.
PRcwESSOR BuB.ET1'. .
Sm,-Some time ago my brother joined the Loch Rannach, and sailed
from the tail of the bank for Melbourne. A few weeks after he left, my
mother saw him clairvoyantly, or in a vision, swimming,astern oithe ship and
apparently naked. To increase her anxiety it looked as if the ship was leav.
ing him. She saw him exerting every nerve to make up on her; at length
he was successful and got safely on board.
On the ship's arrival in Melbourne, it 80 happened that my brother and I
met in Melbourne on this occasion, and I remember he mentioned this inci·
dent at the time, and neither of us then knew that mother knew anything
about it. My brother wrote home as usual, but did'not in his letter mention
about being overboard on the passage out. Mother did not, however, forget
about it; for, on his return, she told him what she had seen (in vision) and
asked him if anything of that nature had happened to him goingout. "Yes,
mother," he said, "one good day, when the shill was in the tropics, I went
overboard to bathe. While swimming near the ship, a breeze of wind sprang
up, and I dropped astern; for some minutes I felt very anxious. However, I
at last succeeded in getting upon the ship; got 011 boaJid," anit he added, "1
don't think I will ever do the same thing again."
J. COWIE.
From Colquhouna." Animal Magnetism," Vol. II. p. 92.
Dr. Arndt, an emi~ent German phyllicu.n, relates that, being one day
seated near the bed of one of his somnambulists, on a sudden she became
agitated, uttered sighs, as if tormented. by BOme vision, exclaimed, "0
heavens, my father ! he is dying I" A few moments afterwards she awoke,
seemed quite cheerful, and recollected nothing of the anxiety she had so
recently manifested. She again relapsed twice into the same state of magnetic
sleep, and each time she was tormented by the same vision. Being asked
what had happened to her father, she answered, "He is bathed in blood; he
ia dying." SOOI1 afterwards she awoke, became composed, and the scene
finished. Some weeks afterwards, Dr. Arndt found this lady pensive and
sorrowful She had just received from her father, who was at a distance of
some hundred miles, an account of a serious accident which had befallen him.
In ascending the stair of his cellar, the door had fallen upon his breast-a
considerable hemorrhage ensued, and the physician despaired of his life. Dr.
Arndt, who had marked the precise time of the preceding scene of the som.
nambulism of this lady, found that it was exactly on the day and at the hour
when the accident happened to her father. "This," observes the doctor.
"could not have been the mere effect of chance; and assuredly, there was
no conceit nor deceit on the part of the observer."
Incidents of the same kind are reported of Madame Hauffe, "the
Seeress of Prevorst." But here, again, we must check ourselves; for
in Madame Hauffe's case the discernment of distant events was, so to
Digitized by Google
148 Journal of Societ!l for PS!lcMcal Researcl,. {Sept., 1884·
. --------------------
speak, not idiopathic but 81Jmptomatic ; it did not form a culmiD.ll.Ilt or
exceptional moment in her life-history, but was rather an accideni
supervening on an habitual condition of trance or ecstasy. DiscW!Sion
of these alleged states must be reserved for another work; and we must
merely note here that our consideration of the percipient's own state as
influencing his .perception of distant scenes shows signs of leading us
rapidly into a region which we have not yet explored. We revert to
cases where the sense of a transfer of consciousness becomes marked,
though without anything clearly resembling a mesmeric trance.
"From Miss M. E. Pritchard, Tan·y·coed, Bangor.
January 30th, 1884.
Two years ago I awoke, one night, with a curiOUB senaation of being in a
sick room, and of the prese.1C6 of people who were anxiously watching by the
bedside of some person, who was dangeroualy m. It was not till some time
after that we heard that one of my sisters, then living in Florida, had been
very ill of a fever, and was at the time of the incident in a most critical state.
MA.GGIE E. PRITCHARD.
In reply to inquiries. Miss Pritchard adds :-
I hat'e never had any other experience of an impression of sickneBB or
death.
The impreBSion of sickness was not the continuation of a dream and
hardly a distinct waking impreBSion. I woke from a heavy sleep with a
great sense of oppression, which gradually seemed to assume a distinct im-
preBSion. It lasted about half an hour, that is, the actual impression, but I
had a great feeling of uneasiness for several days. I have never had any
hallucinations or dreams of death.
The following corroboration is from Miss Pritchard's sister :-
I recollect my sister telling me of her feeling of being in a sick room with
people watching round 3 bedside. She did not mention it to me till the
morning (it occurred during the night). It did not make much impreBSion
on me at the time-not tillafterwards, when we heard of our sister's dangerous
illneBS.-E. B. PRITCHARD.
This is one of the cases whose theoretical interest goes far beyond
their evidential value. The evidence, indeed, is as strong as can fairly
be expected where no crisis of a moment or of an hour is involved, the
impression coinciding with a prolonged state of distress. But the
great interest of the narrative lies in the light which it throws on what
we may call the genesis of telepathic clairvoyance. For the illness of
the sister in Florida affects the sister in England in a way which seeIlJs
almost midway between the two assumed modes of communication.
Sept., 1884.] Journal of SocietyJor P8ychical Be8earch. 149
Let us try to picture to ourselves (bearing in mind that it is only
conjecture) how this phenomenon may have occurred.
The English sister, ·we will say, in her" heavy sleep," was in a con-
dition specially open to telepathic impact. Such impiLct came to her
from the invalid in America, and elicited in her the power of telepathic
cla.irvoyance. As we have already seen, this faculty seems most readily
1;0 be excited when the percipient is asleep. The number of
clairvoyant dreams is large. This lady, then, might have been expected
to experience merely a clairvoyant dream, remembered or forgotten on
waking, as the case might be. On this occasion, however, things seem
to have occurred somewhat differently. The shock of waking dispelled
the dream; but the clairvoyant connection was still maintained in-
distinctly, not as vision, but as the mere sensation of presence in the
midst of an imperfectly apprehended scene. This may be regarded as a
kind of faint "clairvoyance" ; since we know too little of the nature of
" clairvoyant" pere.eption to assume that a sense of sigltt is a necesSary
element in it. It seems better defined as "apparent transference of
the centre of consciousness, with perceptions whose extent and nature
seem todepend on the intensity of direction of the percipieut's attention.
rather than on the range of any special organsof sense." In the case
which we are considering, the perception scattered by the shock of waking
seems gradually to have collected itself again, in the percipient's tran-
quillity, much in the same way as a dream sometimes forms itself anew
in a second slumber.
Our next case throws an interesting light on the nature of tele-
pathic clairvoyance.
My uncle, the late A-- S--, Esq.; of Thornbury, near Bristol, was
living at his villa in that little town in the year 1842, and on the evening of a
certain day in November had retired to bed in his usual health, at his
customary hour. Contrary to hiB habit, however, he could not sleep, but
lay awake counting thE> houra until three o'clock in the morning, when Bud-
denly he found himaelf in a country whoBe featureB were quite Btrange to
him. He became aware that he waa in the Neilgherrie hill country of India,
where hiB brother S-- waa on invalid furlough. It appeared to him that he
remained three months there with 8--, that he attended h~m during his
illness, and thatfinally S-- died,whEln the vision faded,and he found himself
.again in hiB bed. He waa now satiafied that this vision had revealed a
certainty to him, turned round and fell asleep, and in the morning he told my
a\1nt all about it. He baa mentioned this matter to me Beveral timeB, and
always expreBBed his belief that he waa broad awake while he Baw the vision,
which he thought must have paaBed with tae rapidity of "thought," and was.
qaite lure it waa no dream.
In the next Bpring my uncle and aunt were at Cheltenham, whither they
had gone for the benefit of MrB. 8--'B health; in due coome my uncle
Digitized by Google
150 Jorernalof Bacielll fot· P8ychical Re86arc/,. [Sept.,18SL
received from his brother's agents at Madras a letter containing information
of S--'s death at such and such a place in the Neilgherrie Hills, at the
precise day and hour that mv uncle saw the vision in his bed at Thornbury.
"It was no news to me," said my uncle to me when telling me of the
circumstance; "I knew poor S-- wu gone several months befOl'e."
(Signed) A. S.
Here we find the percipient insisting that he was "broad awake" j
although the vision seen is, as one may say, a dream on the very face
of it. Where else but in a dream (we may ask), are the events of
months apparently lived through in a few moments1 Is such a con-
centrated retrospection possible except in sleep 1 To this question an
answer suggests itself which seems at once to put us in the right track.
Concentrated retrospection of this kind is experienced, as is abundantly
testified,in the act of drownin3. That is to say, in the nearest approach
to actual death of which we have numerous and concordant accounts,
we find that a rapid revivification of memory is a habitual feature. It
seems conceivable, then, that a telepathic impression coming from a
dying person might convey a kind of bird's-eye review of a loag tract of
previous existence. And, in supposing this to be the case, we are
merely extending a hypothesis already made, namely, that the picture
of a scene, as transferred from an agent's mind, may carry with it some-
thing of his reflections upon that scene, or of his foresight as to what is
going to happen next.
We shall give one more death-bed scene, a case which comes to us
on very good authority, and which suggests several reflections.
I had kno\VJl Mr. H-- as a medical man, under whose treatment I had
beell for BOme years, and at whose hands I had experienced great kindnell8.
He had ceued to attend me for considerably more than a year at the time of
his death. I wu aware that he had given up practice, but beyond that I
knew nothing of his proceedings, or of the Btate of his health. At the time
I last saw him, he appeared particularly well, and even made Borne remark
himself u to the amount of vigour and work left in him
On Thursday, the 16th day of December, 1875, I had been for BOme
little time on a visit at my brother-in-law'B and Bister'B house near London.
I wu in good health, but from the morning and throughout the day I felt
unaccountably depressed and out of Bpirits, which I attributed to the gloomi-
neBS of the weather. A Bhort time after lunch, about two O'clock, I thought
I would go up to the nursery to amuse mYBelf with the children and try to
recover my Bpirits. The attempt failed, and I returned to the dining-room
where I sat by myself, my Bister being engaged elsewhere. The thought of
Mr.-- came into my miad, and suddenly, with my eyes open, u I believe,
for I wu not feeling Bleepy, I seemed to be in a room in whicD a man wu
lying dead in a small bed. I recognised the face at once u that of Mr.--
and felt, DO doubt, that he wu dead and not asleep only. The room appeared
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1884.] Journal C!f Sociefy/a]' Psychical Research. 151
------------------------
to be bare and without carpet or furniture. I cannot Bay how long the
.appearance la.sted. I did not mention the appearance to my sia~er or brother-
in-law at the time. I tried to argue with myself that there could be nothing
in what I had seen, chiefly on the gIound that from what I knew of Mr.--'s
circumstances, it was most improbable that, if dead, he would be in a room
in 80 bare and unfurnished a state. Two days afterwards, on December 18th,
I left my sister's house for home. About a week after my arrival, another of
my sisters read out of the daily papers the announcement of Mr.--'s death,
which had taken place abroad, and on December 16th, the day on which I
had Been the appearsnce.
I have Bince been informed that Mr.-- had died in a sma)) villa.ge
hospital in a warm foreign climate, having been suddenlyattacktld with illneaa
whilst on his travels.
Now we find, on inquiry, that Mr.-- had died some hours before
this clairvoyant vision occurred. And the vision avowedly reveals not
a dying man but a dead man. It might therefore be urged that this
narrative was out of place amongst cases of telepathic impressions
originated by living minds. But on a closer survey we observe that the
marked depression began in the rlwrrting, and that the vision was not a
sudden incident, but rather the culmination of a prolonged emotional
disturbance.
We suggest, therefore, that the dying man's thought reached this
lady's n:.ind, and affected it (as in so many other cases) with a mere
vague depression. This depression, however, was strong and persistent;
it accumulated as the effects of a synchronous vibration accumulate, and
at last, when the percipient was in a passive condition, (having been
driven to renounce other occupations by this haunting sense of distress),
she was made, for a moment, clairvoyante, and her centre of conscious-
ness was transferred to the scene whence the operating in1luence had
arisen. By that time, no doubt, the scene was one of apparent death; but
we may still refer the original impulse to the dying man. And we may
just observe that the phenomena of mesmerism offer some interesting
analogies in the incubation of transmitted impulses in the subject's
brain.
It is, in fact, obvious that in dealing with telepathic clain·oyance we
are, so to speak, standing at a centre towards which many lines of
recorded phenomena converge. We must not encumber the main course
of our argument by noticing these at length. But we may just point
out that among the cases of so-called "second-sight" in the Highlands,
kc., are many which would fall into our scheme just at this point. In
"second sight," two distinct elements seem to be involved: (1) Sym-
bolical prevision, as the sight of coffins or lights before death; (2)
Clairvoyance, sometimes voluntarily exercised, sometimes involuntarily,
and in the latter case corresponding generally to sorue danger or distress
Digitized by Coog
152 JOl{rnal qf Sociefylor P8.'Ichical Re8earch. [Sept., 1884.
of a distlmt person. The quaint case which we cite from "Theophilus
Insulanus," a contemporary collection of such narratives made by :Mr.
Donald Macleod towards the end of the 18th century, is obviously
parallel to many of the experiences on which we have already dwelt.
Mary Campbell, a woman of acknowledged probity and candour, relatea
that when she was a )oung girl, living in her father's house upon the island
of Scalpa, there was a notable old aeer, one Evander Mac Mbaoldonich, 110
domestic in the family, who by the second sight, foretold several events which
punctually came to pass; and in particular, that Kenneth Campbell, her
brother, being on a ~jaunt in the Lewes, and as he was returning home,
accompanied by his servant whom he had sent upon an errand to a village at
80me distance, as the aaid Kenneth was solitarily on his way, he found him·
self seized with a faintiahnlll8, which 80 gained upon him that he W/UI obliged
to crawl on all fours, through mires and puddles, to a desolate cottage, where
he remained that night, and after a 80und sleep, recovered of his ailment.
The old Beef that night seemed frettish, and being asked the Nason of his
being 80 much out of humour, told that the aaid Kenneth Campbell waa not
at his ease, and that he observed him, by the second sight, ina very different
condition, his clothes being fuddled, and all bespattered with filth and mud;
which, upon his return to the family next day, he himself declared to have
been literally true, according to the above prediction.
Here we ma.y leave for the present the subject of telepathic clair-
voyance. The next paper will be concerned with cases where the
quasi-percept is still confined to one individual, although there seems no
obvious reason why other persons present might not have shared in the
seeing or hearing, had there been ~nything objective to see or hear.
F. W.H. M_
Digitized by Google
