{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael F Probable NDE 4792","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael F Probable NDE 4792  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2427 Michael F Probable NDE 4792  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					December 15, 1970.

On December 11, 1970, my father mother brother and I went shopping at a store called Times Square stores on London Boulevard in Brooklyn, New York.

I wanted a particular type of stereo that played cassettes and records and we found one called the 'Panasonic SE 990' for $199.

As you walk into the showroom, it was on the top shelf about eye level to the right and I fell in love with the unit immediately because at that time it was not the highest quality unit but certainly the best-looking unit in the store.

That Was a Great Deal of Money.

But my father said he would purchase the unit for me and he did so. We then proceeded to the drapery department where my mother was immediately for the last of a concession sold food and drinks.

Dad purchased a bunch of frankfurters and sodas.  Then we went over to the steps at the rear of the store/concession and walked up to the middle platform and put our packages down and we ate our frankfurters on the steps.

Dad was standing on the platform that was about five feet wide in between two sets of steps thirteen down and eleven towards the higher level.

I asked my mother if I would be able to use the stereo system before Christmas because typically we weren't allowed to open our gifts before Christmas?

Mom said you'll have to ask your father and I did. He explained that he thought it would be okay because I might be dead before Christmas. We all looked at him funny not knowing why he would say something like that.

As it turns out ninety-six hours later almost to the minute I would be slashed/stabbed approximately a hundred and fifty feet from the above entrance and run to that doorway to seek help, all the while knowing after being slashed that my life was going to cease to exist within moments.

My brother and I were in the store shopping for electric Norelco razors for my mother and father's Christmas presents and we saw three black men following us at which point I said let's go upstairs. Then use the upstairs exit.

I explained to my brother if anything happened to run around to the side entrance because I had a bad feeling and he was two years younger and really didn't know what was going on.

I knew what was going on because I had been trained in judo and jujitsu for four years for this type of occurrence and knew that we were about to be attacked because of my training.

We thought we lost them and when we walked out the front though we may be right and walked about two hundred feet from the front entrance through the parking lot. One of the men jumped out from between two parked cars and got right in our face saying give me all your money and your presents. I throw him immediately to the ground and before he hit the ground, two more black men came up from behind us and slashed my back open from my spine to the side of my rib cage.

My brother was stabbed twice in the kidney and in the lung. Then they ran away not taking our packages nor were they trying to get our money they were simply out to stab a couple of white boys. I grabbed the bag with the presents in it and my brother and told him we must run to the side entrance to get help.

When I started running I realized that what I believed to be a punch in the kidneys was really a knife wound and that inside my mind I knew I was about to die.

We both ran around the side of the building to the side staircase that we have eaten frankfurters on for days prior. When I ran into the building, there was a black security guard and I explained to him that we had been stabbed and he thought we were kidding.

All the while I was holding my back together because when I reached back I could feel my rib cage and the blood was already down to my knees because I have a ten inch gash from a razor knife and I was bleeding to death.

The security guard thought we were kidding.  When I screamed at him, turned around, and showed him my back he threw me on the floor and told me to lay still. He called the police on a phone at the top of the stairs, which was part of the building security system, and the police were there within two or three minutes.

When I was lying on the top platform, I saw several people I knew at the bottom of the steps in the lower level of the store because the platform was about fourteen feet wide it was a very open view.

I didn't say hello to them because I had other things on my mind including that I was about to die and was perfectly okay with this.

Also when the blood started flowing down the eleven steps between where I was lying on the floor to the middle platform where my father had been standing four days before this at almost the exact same time I noticed the blood started to create a puddle eleven steps down on the platform itself where my father had been standing.

Dad ran into the store because he had been parked in the parking lot waiting for us and saw the commotion but didn't know what happened. When he got into the store, he saw that my brother and I were lying on the floor, both bleeding.

Only moments later, the police came.  This police officer, who I believe was a Vietnam veteran, simply put one hand under my chest and grabbed both halves of the flesh wound and clamp them closed with his own bare hand.  He picked me up, walked me into his police cruiser, and sat me on his lap.  The other police officer drove us to the hospital that was less than a thousand feet away.

I remember asking the police officer how bad it was and he said it was just a scratch but I knew he was lying because of the puddle of blood on the middle platform, and the fact that I had felt my own rib cage so I realized I wasn't going to get anything truthful from him.

We were at the hospital in less than one minute.  There was a stretcher waiting in the parking lot that went down several switchback ramps and I was facing forward after they put me on the stretcher and still the police officer was holding my wound closed with his bare hands.

This was quite an interesting experience and I remember that the stretcher itself had gotten partially loose from the people running us down the ramp and they smashed me into the wall which I thought was rather funny all things considered and knowing I was going to die anyway I told him to slow down but he didn't hear me.

By the time we got into the emergency room, they were already removing/hauling people out with superficial wounds and broken bones.

There was an entire team of people coming from all directions asking questions from only me because my father and brother still hadn't arrived.

They were asking me if I was allergic or had any special medical conditions.

The police officer was still holding my wound together, but only a few moments into the procedure there were already a dozen people crowded around me doing things.

There was a short fellow, who I learned was the head surgeon, called the doctor in charge of the operation.  At which point, several people started clamping things on my back and the doctor was explaining what needed to be done.

The police officer when I looked up was talking to my father and my brother was in the stretcher next to mine on the other side of the people that were working on myself there was also a team of people working on him.

His wounds were deep but they had not hit anything vital and it took them a while to stabilize him and run all the tests while they were still working on me.

Apparently there is a procedure in a case like this that they give you somebody to keep you occupied so you're not thinking about what's going on around you. They were not able to give me any kind of pain sedation because they didn't know if I was allergic to anything and they needed to work on me while I was conscious because I had lost so much blood they feared if they sedated me I wouldn't wake up.

This fellow they put in front of my face because I was lying on my stomach started talking to me about baseball - there isn't anything in life I hate more than baseball.

I never played baseball, I never liked baseball, and I had only went to one baseball game in my entire life and that was the 1969 World Series Mets game on the last day. I explained to this fellow I don't like baseball and that he needed to leave me alone I wanted to think about what was going to happen.

He asked me what I thought was going to happen and I told him that I was going to die and I didn't need him asking me any more questions.

He kept talking but I didn't pay any attention to him from that point on and was kind of looking around the room at all the things that were going on around me.

At some point, I looked up and saw that my father's brother had brought my mother to the hospital and that my mother father and his brother were standing in a doorway about forty feet from where I was staring at me.

This I didn't pay much attention to because I was thinking to myself what it was like to die and for some strange reason I kept thinking I was going to see my grandmother because she had died not too long before that.

This was all quite clear in my mind that there was this inevitability that I was going to move on and be dead shortly no matter what the doctors did it would make no difference the outcome was going to be the same I would be dead within moments.

This fellow, who was designated to keep me company, was still talking to me but something strange started to happen. I started to be able to hear all the voices in the room independently from one another and I could comprehend each word that was said by several dozen people at the same time.  I could hear him and see his lips move because he was right in front of my face. But I was lying on my belly and there were several people surrounding the operating table itself that were all screaming out different orders in a type of panic mode and although I didn't care I knew what was about to happen.

But more strange than even hearing all of the voices of the people surrounding me I could hear the voices in the people in the room including the police officer that brought me in and the nurses in the room that my mother and father were in as well and I could hear their conversations as clear as day.

The police officer and a woman named Barbara who happens to be my next-door neighbor and the nurse on duty were having a conversation in regards to what my chances of living were.  My mother and father were also in the same room but they were still in the doorway.  There was no way I could've known what was on the other side of that concrete wall except that when I heard the voices, I could hear through the walls themselves. I knew what direction they were coming from because at this point I was looking at my mother and father still standing in the doorway, and yet the voices were coming from about fifteen feet to the left or right through the concrete wall.

At that point I waved to my mother and father goodbye because I knew I was about to die and I closed my eyes the pain went away and I started to rise up out of my body.

I looked around and the doctors were getting busy but none of that mattered and I took one more look towards my mother and father before I went up through the ceiling. They were crying yet still I didn't care especially now that the pain was gone.

There were no bright lights like you see in the movies. In fact, once I moved through the ceiling, I was immediately standing inside a huge room with a very high ceiling. I was facing what appeared to be a dozen or so very hard wooden pews/podiums and behind each pew there was a man in a hooded garment and the faces although discernible were not well lit, kind of like a monk in the monastery.

A voice explained to me not to be afraid which wouldn't have mattered because I wasn't afraid anyway. In a conversational voice, it asked me if I knew why I was there.

Apparently, I was dead for all intent and purposes.

I explained I knew I was dead and that was why I was in the room with those people standing behind the high wooden pews.

Then it asked me if I had any questions and I say 'it' because it seemed as if although the voice came from one you could take it as a person that it was a group effort and what I call a group I mean to be a kind of counsel.

It asked me if I thought I had to fill any parts of my life that I didn't accomplish up until my age of fifteen years, which was an interesting question. We had a discussion and I explained that I really didn't know what the future held but although I was comfortable where I was there were some things I still wanted to do on earth.

And as if each of the members took turns asking me questions I would look at the different members behind the pews or podiums and I call them wooden pews because I was fifteen years old when that occurred and the only thing I knew to relate to as far as the words are concerned is a pew.

However, several questions were asked by the members of the Council asking me if I agreed to fulfill a promise of unknown nature, they would allow me to return to this world.

At this point I asked him what that promise would be and it was explained to me that I would know when the time came.

At the same time, it explained to me that it would be something that everybody in the world would come to understand at some point in history but not in those words.

Closer to what was said would be that one day I would be granted the ability to do something great.

I'm not sure how much time went by but it seemed as if it could have been a half an hour because before I left I had a conversation with most of the Council members including one about my grandmother, who is apparently okay, but I wasn't going to be able to see or talk to her.

Eventually it came down to whether or not my choice was to stay where I was or to go back to the earth.

I kind of thought about my mother and father crying just before I left the room when I left my body and I decided to go back so it wouldn't hurt their feelings by dying but it wasn't my first choice.

I did it more for them than for myself but eventually I said okay I'll go back and one more time as if in a kind of harmony it seemed as if all the voices were asking me the same question if I promise to keep my agreement they will let me go back.

I said I promise!

I don't think I was finished saying the word 'PROMISE' itself and I was in my body staring at this fellow still trying to get my attention while all the doctors were running around like chickens without heads.

I turned to the left, towards the doorway where my mother and father was in.   and waved to them again letting them know that I was going to be okay but I must tell you at that point the pain was intense much more intense than it was before I left because apparently before that I was in shock and now I was in reality.

That fellow standing in front of me was really getting on my nerves and I told them I wasn't going to talk to him anymore at all and put my head down and started to think about all that happened.

Well it took about another hour and a half before they sewed me up and did all the testing and then they took me in for x-rays and it was around one o'clock in the morning by the time I got to a hospital room in a stable condition.

They never did give me any painkillers at all and if they did, I must tell you the pain never stopped.

The doctor himself came up with me to the hospital room, I told them what had happened, and that was when he explained to me that it was only a dream. Well it wasn't a dream. I told him the same story the next day and he insisted it was only a dream. Either way it didn't make a difference what he said and when I explained the same story to my mother and father they also said it was a dream because apparently they talked to the doctor and they all knew it was a dream.

The aftermath made me change the way I live my life.

For several years immediately after this experience I explained this to my friends and started reading books on the occult and cosmic consciousness including a book by Richard Maurice Bucke called 'Cosmic Consciousness' and others similar in nature.

When I was seventeen I started training with a man I met through an ad in the Village Voice whose name was Norm. He was sixty-six years old and worked for the United States government is entire life as a choreographer/photographer.

In all probability, he was doing a study for this government and still paid for the study.  At the same time, he was teaching students about Zen Buddhism and yoga privately in his own home. I studied with this man for three and half years before moving into a Zen Buddhist monastery out on Long Island and studying the martial arts.

When I was approximately seventeen years old, I knew what it was that I was interested in but didn't know that it would take another thirty-five years before I would actually write the book and fulfill the promise I made to the Council.

The name of that book is www.angelsontheark.com and it was thirty-five years in the making between notes, memos, literature, and things I collected to prove my point of view was at least possible if not probable.

Although at some point in the year 1988 on May 10, I was absolutely certain I was headed in the right direction and that is a story in and of itself.

This concludes the segment on the near-death experience that I experienced on December 15, 1970.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 15, 1970'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  Prior to being stabbed I knew for certain I was about to die even before I had seen the attackers themselves. In fact my father predicted that I would be dead before Christmas four days prior to the experience in the exact spot where I would lay down afte  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I had been stabbed to death  Criminal attack - slashed and stabbed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From several moments before I got slashed and/or stabbed I was totally aware of every instant every second and every thought word and experience that I experienced from that point up until the time I exited the emergency room and went upstairs to go to sleep.  At no point was I not fully alert and aware of everything that was occurring and to this day forty years later I remember it as if I did it was this morning after breakfast.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Because apparently I could've only been in that room with those entities for a few moments but it did seem like I was being involved in a question and answer period for as long as possibly one half hour.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision and my hearing improved 10,000% and I could see and hear every voice and person in the room and understand every word that was being said as I previously described and even the conversations that were taking place behind concrete walls that had to do with my situation.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Apparently this is the part that we have to repeat.  Once I rose out of my body through the ceiling in the emergency room I was in a large room surrounded by approximately one dozen pews that were high approximately shoulder height and behind each of the wooden pews or boxes/podiums there was an individual in a hooded robe brown in color whose face was barely visible.

  It was impossible to know exactly what they look like but they did look like men 80% of their face was dark and so I couldn't see any definitive facial features.

  One thing I was sure of is that they were all men or at least the ones I spoke with had voices of men who spoke with perfect crystal clarity.

  None of the words was slurred and I didn't have to have any sentence or question repeated.  Come to think of it, this is the first time I ever thought of this part but I understood each question that they posed the first time and explained my answers in crystal clarity the first time as well.

  I can do this today at the age of fifty-four with pretty good success. When someone asks me a question about something I know about, but at that time I didn't know anything about death besides my grandmother dying and to be able to speak and communicate with these beings in crystal clarity is something I never gave much thought to until today.

  Either way, there were approximately twelve of them.  They were not circling me; rather they were up against a wall about twenty-five feet away from where I was standing.  In the beginning one of them was standing approximately ten feet in front of me to my left and this was the person that greeted me when I got there but eventually he to either disappeared or went behind one of the pews.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   n/a.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As I said I visited a room that was dark in nature and all I could make out was shadow with people standing in hooded robes.    At no point did I see their faces and at no point was it beautiful it was simply a brown room with brown wooden pews with approximately a dozen men in the room itself standing behind the pews.    There was nothing fancy and I don't remember ever seeing a floor or a ceiling.  
  
  There was nothing on the walls behind the men and there were no lamps and no lighting fixtures simply put I was basically standing on air which I never gave any thought to until today as well and they were simply up against what appeared to be a wall in the background but there was no wall to the left and no wall to the right it was simply a series of pews up against a wall with no flaw and no ceiling that were discernible.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There was no emotion other than the fact I was extremely interested in what was occurring and it was as if I knew that all of what was going to happen was okay to happen.

  I can't describe it other than the fact that at no time there was any fear or anxiety and each step of the way I was more interested in the experience itself than what was actually occurring.

  There was never any fear at all it was kind of like the exhilaration you get when you go water skiing and you're jumping over the waves everything seemed to be fun and interesting.  There is no way to describe why I wasn't afraid of than the fact that I had known it was going to happen before those fellows walked out of the store and stabbed me. It was almost as if it was predestined and that no matter how I felt about it, it was going to happen.  Of course later on I would find out that it was predestined but I didn't know that at the time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was not at the actual time of being stabbed that I experienced any review.  The review happened while I was in the room with the dozen or so beings I experienced some thoughts of the things I had already done and some questions as to some of the things I was going to do in the future if I was allowed to live.

  But my life didn't flash before me at all. It was all very calm and rational.  Yes, I learned something. I learned that I was going to have to fulfill a promise that I spent the next forty years fulfilling.  On April 15, 2010, I published a book with all of this information in it although not as detailed because your questionnaire made me remember things that I didn't remember prior to this end inside this book which is 1,900 pages long I described the promise 'THE PROMISE' that which I gave to these people I called 'The Council'.  Apparently, it was my lifelong destiny to write this book and now that I am done writing the book it seems as if my life is empty I have no purpose and no goals left to reach for.

  I must tell you that all in all the many times in my life I just wished I would've been a normal person not knowing any of this stuff and not having to deal with the thousands of people that look at me as if I am crazy. I have had this conversation 10,000 times and I am not crazy this is an actual experience that occurred to me. This is also the reason I wrote a book.  Each time I explain it to people I explain it exactly the same way to 10,000 different people and of course I have never explained 10,000 times it may have only been a few thousand times but either way I wrote a book [Raghu & Sudha interesting the name of the publisher's just appeared on my screen].

  Either Way I Wrote a Book describing my experience and my life's destiny so that no one could say I didn't put it down on paper and at the same time describing my interpretation of the future because throughout my entire life I have had psychic experiences because of this original death experience.

  In fact, some of the things I learned were that I had psychic abilities that go far beyond those of normal men and that I could do things that cannot be described rationally.  For one month before the space shuttle Challenger disaster, I told everybody I knew and every person I didn't know that something was going to blow up in the sky.  Everyone on earth would see the explosion and although that is not possible for everyone on earth to see the explosion if it happens in any one part of the sky it did.

  But more to the point, the day that the Challenger took off, I didn't own a television but I felt I needed to watch the TV.  I actually ran full blocks to my mother's house and back to get a nine inch black-and-white Panasonic TV I had in deep storage and got back to my apartment plug it in and the space shuttle was taking off.

  As it left the launching pad, I realized that if it blew up everyone on earth would see it so that this had to be the event that I foresaw in my mind. Of course, at one minute and thirteen seconds after liftoff at 11:38 AM in the morning the Challenger did in fact blow up.  Interestingly enough, 1:13 seconds and the time 11:38 AM seem to have a lot in common - and more explicitly the numbers '113.' It was almost as if the event itself was planned which plays an important role in my book and that I believe most of these catastrophes that occur in history are planned and I know for a fact that I wrote about this for months before it occurred - something blowing up in the sky and then it happened.

  The exact same thing was true with the World Trade Center. I predicted it to at least seven different people the morning of the explosions themselves at 7:00 AM till the time of the event itself I was telling all the people I work with that something was going to blow up involving a great deal of police and firemen.

  When the event occurred, my boss called me on the radio and told me to keep my mouth shut for the FBI and/or CIA would surely be down and disrupt his business, which in fact I did.  This type of event occurs quite often and if it is not a catastrophe it is knowing some piece of information that is left out a blameworthy news story that has nothing to do with reality.

  I can never prove any of these things other than the fact that years later, my original beliefs always turn out to be closer to the truth than the original stories.

  Again this is why I wrote the book www.angelsontheark.com because I wanted this stuff to be in stone on a before December 15, 2011 because some sort of catastrophe is going to occur that is going to change the way the world exists.

  I don't think the world is going to end per se but the way we live in this world is!  Some event about to occur that is going to change the way the world's reality exists. I have known this since 1980s and am protected as such. Since that time, I believe that by the year 2010 there would be some kind of catastrophe that would be world renowned that would start a cascading event that would change the future of mankind and in fact that event was George Bush blowing up the World Trade Centers.

  I don't care if you believe that is the truth or not. I know it is the truth and so do hundreds of thousands of other people. The difference is I predicted it and because I predicted that event I know that the thoughts that go along with my predictions were just as true as the event itself.

  So in answer to your question yes the death experience made my life change and I did become aware of future events on a psychic level far greater than that can be explained away as chance coincidence.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Well that depends on what you consider future events?

  I was told unequivocally that one day I would have to perform a duty or a function and fulfill a promise to do something. However, that particular something was never discussed.  When I asked the council what that promise was it wouldn't tell.  The only explanation I received was that when the time came I would know what it was.

  Apparently it was to prove the existence of a field of energy that which we perceive to be {{{ A God }}} by utilizing the Bible along with the {{{~ONE DOLLAR BILL~}}} and as crazy as this might sound it is in fact the truth. In 1988, I was concerned that I had gone mad because I discovered what my real task was to be and it was confounding to the point of almost going insane.

  I had believed I knew what that task was, even as early as the year 1975. I had worked towards that end from 1974/75 onward believing that the possibility of proving the existence of God by utilizing the Bible and the {{{~ONE DOLLAR BILL~}}} was in fact possible although I had no possible understanding of a methodology that would work I only believe that the two would be symbiotic in some way.

  In fact, as it turns out I have proved the existence of a higher power by utilizing the 3,300 pictographs that exist on the Obverse and Reverse of the One Dollar Bill.

  Once again, this is difficult to grasp because this concept as I have been told has never been touched by any movie producer any psychologist any psychoanalyst anybody in the field of metaphysics and absolutely no one in the field of religion or theology. My methodology to combine the symbiotic relationship between the two is in and of itself a 100% virgin territory.

  The awareness that I would have to fulfill a promise was fulfilled and it was in fact a perfectly accurate awareness of the information necessary once I got it through my head that this was what I needed to accomplish in life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was 15 years old and was brought up a Catholic although I always hated church because I knew for certain that the priests were hypocrites and an early age. Several of the priests had been witnessed personally by myself and my friends engaging in sexual relationships with the nuns and I knew them to be afraid even at an early age.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Another time an unequivocal yes must be said here.  I studied all religions and all theologies possible while living in New York City and came to the understanding that Buddhism and more specifically Zen, was the only acceptable way to live one's life if in fact one had to make a choice as to a philosophical belief system.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   After the experience I spent the next 17 years of my life searching for answers privately by professionals that taught religion and theology in Manhattan and Long Island New York. I studied under the tutelage of professors, theologians and scholars in the privacy of their own homes although during the daytime these people were professional theologians and professors at nearby colleges. The studies included several forms of yoga and Zen meditation including three years in a Zen Buddhist monastery environment. Your religious background question is not pertinent to my beliefs and I have moved beyond the belief in any single system more than 30 years ago. Although you probably want a description the only one that could apply would be Buddhism.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Another time an unequivocal yes must be said here.

  I studied all religions and all theologies possible while living in New York City and came to the understanding that Buddhism and more specifically Zen, was the only acceptable way to live one's life if in fact one had to make a choice as to a philosophical belief system.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had no fear of the entities I was communicating with although I knew they weren't from the world from which I just came from but in the same respect I didn't think they were God. I believe they were conveying a message from the universe itself and that our limited ability to comprehend the universe makes us see this as a godlike deity because of our silly religions and philosophies but either way whatever they were they were special but not anything I would bow down to and worship. It wasn't like that.

  They didn't demand any kind of special respect and it never went through my mind to bow down to them or call them God or even Angels they were simply men in hoods that I address as being something what I perceive to be called a council of supernatural beings neither benevolent or malevolent simply stating facts.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Absolutely yes.  Only a few women that I have met in my entire life will listen to my story and for some reason it is much easier for a man to believe this type of story than a woman will although I don't know why.

  On the rare occasion that I fell in love with a woman, only one woman of the four believed my story and accepted it as the truth and she lived three thousand miles away in California when I was twenty-five years old and she was married but separated and that relationship didn't work out.

  As far as men are concerned men will sit there, listen, and say they believe in some well might believe the story but when they get upset with you then they turn around and say you're crazy.  I work in the construction industry and metaphysics is not their forte.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   In 1970 when I was fifteen years old this type of experience was completely unheard of. I explained it to the doctors when I came back into this world and they said it was a dream although I insisted it was not they were certain it was nothing more than a dream. I explained it to my parents and they said it was a dream. I explained it to my friends and they said it was a dream, and in 1970 until the year 1975, I could not find a single person on earth to believe me. That is when I found a person named Norm who took me underneath his wing.  He taught me everything he knew about the Eastern philosophies Zen Buddhist meditation and several intricate forms of yoga. If that were not for Norm, I would not be here today.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     From that point in history onward my skills as a Carpenter and a jet mechanic and everything that I did throughout the rest of my life when it came to mechanical abilities far surpass those of any other person I ever met.

  I became one of the most innovative deck builders in the 1980's far surpassing any other deck builder on earth in design, structure, technique, methodology and in general the amount of time necessary to build the structure itself. Although that can't be taken into account because no one else on earth has ever constructed the type of deck work that I had already accomplished and become proficient at by the year 1982 and I did so for another nine years.  In other words I was the best Deccan builder anyone had ever seen including Bob Vila from the TV show.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience was meaningful. It was the most important event of my life I cannot explain it any better than that.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started sharing this experience hours after I was stabbed to death 9/10 people that I expressed this opinion or shared this opinion with believe I am completely insane.  Not insane on a level of being dangerous but in saying that I believe what I state and I only speak the truth, which compounds this even further because I will explain each and every detail and for the most part I am casting pearls among swine.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   N/A.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because it happened. In addition, the fact that my father had predicted psychically somehow because it was in fact is only a psychic experience he ever had exactly four days before the experience itself occurred.  And that was talked about much at the time of the event.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because for the next thirty-eight years I spent doing research to prove something that each and every person I explained what I wanted to do said was impossible.

  Every person that I confronted and explained to them that there was a methodology in which to prove the Lord God existed.  They told me I was insane.  I have had several conversations with this field of energy including another near-death experience, which occurred in the year 1990 with the same group of beings, or entities that I had on December 15, 1970.  To me this is a real perception of real events.

  It has never mattered even one time to whom I explained the story or what their perception of reality is I still explain it until they are tired of hearing it believe it or tell me I am crazy but I never back down and I don't care what other people think.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   On several occasions I have had actual conversations with the same group of individuals that I call The Council but it was not related to drug induced states of consciousness at all.

  When these occurred, I was usually in a state of meditation or simply walking down the block, I would hear voices within my head, and it would be The Council.

  And on one occasion I experienced the devil itself which was in March of 1990.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, on several occasions I have had actual conversations with the same group of individuals that I call The Council but it was not related to drug induced states of consciousness at all.

  When these occurred I was usually in a state of meditation or simply walking down the block and I would hear voices within my head and it would be The Council, at which point we would have discussions about different topics including various topics for the book that was being written.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You could ask the question would you marry someone that didn't believe your story?

  Another question might be would you remain friends with someone who didn't believe your story?

  Another question might be: 'From this experience do you find that you tell the truth more often than before the experience itself occurred?'

  Possibly asking the same question differently (do you tell the truth all the time)?  Do you prefer not to explain this story to people until after you become friends with them what do you explain it to them within the first few times were meetings of friendship knowing that it might become an issue later on.

  Anyway, those are the questions that I might ask because those are important to me.  Thank you for taking the time to read my survey.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_f_probable_nde.html