{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael C NDE 120","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael C NDE 120  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Michael C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						2055  Michael C NDE  120  					  				  			        			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description (2055) 10/16/2004:   

				  					I was in a very peaceful place facing a very bright light that was not painful. 

There were several (3 or 5) tall thin people whose features I either did not see or cannot remember.  They seemed kindly.   

We were moving slowly toward the light. I have no memory of walking, we were just moving.  There was no discernible tunnel, but the space did seem to have boundaries. 

One of the people took my hand and said, 'You can come with us.' 

I looked up and said, 'No, I want my Mom.'  I do not remember being afraid, only that I wanted my Mom. 

The person released my hand and I began to back away from the light, again there is no memory of walking, just moving. 

I awoke to find my Mom hugging me and looking very worried. 

It ought to be noted that I had forgotten about this experience for many decades.  My mother used to tell the story of Mich'l's hallucinations about space aliens.  I must have told my Mom about the experience.  since on one knew about NDEs in 1958, she interpreted it as an hallucination. 

It was in 2001 during a protracted period (3 months) of intensive Taijiquan practice that local politician had an NDE.  Listening to her relate her experience, I had a massive deja vu experience.  Several weeks of deep meditation and Daoist introspection brought some of the memories back into consciousness.

Background Information:   

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    1958  

NDE Elements:   

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Other Systemic infection with extremely high body temperatures.  Treated with alcohol rubs.Systemic infection with associated extremely high temperatures.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unknown.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was in  a place I had never been and time seemed slower.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid  

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    There was a very bright light in front of me.  It was not painful.  It seemed to obscure the features of the people with me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The walls of the tunnel were not apparent but there was a distinct feeling of a boundary at the end of which was the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Three or five very tall thin people was features were not discernible.  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very bright, but not painful to look at.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No       

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, calmness, lightness, comfort  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future       

The experience included:      Boundary  

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:   

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Anglican church of Canada  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No       

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Practical Daoist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No       

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  I suspect so, but since 12-year-olds do not have much in the way of relationships, it is difficult to tell.  It has definitely influenced my life and how I relate to others.  I have never had a fear of death, I tend to be very liberal and have always been empathic.  Walking in the others shoes seems to be quite easy.  Others find me affable, easy going and unflappable.  I do not panic in crises.    

After the NDE:   

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Electronic devices seem to work poorly or not at all, around me.  I am the butt of jokes from computer folk who know that I get glitches that no one else does and are not reproducible.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    43 years.  My wife seemed interested.  My older daughter is intrigued but is a practitioner of Eastern medicine.  After several 'kindly negative' responses I have stopped telling people about the experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I do not remember, but as a child I probably believed in the experience until convinced otherwise by my Mom.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Body/mind work has realized the NDE as real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Taojiqauna and qigong have allowed me to attain similar mind/body or out-of-body states.  This is ongoing.      


            		Experience Description 5/3/2002:   

I have after many years begun to remember the experience.  The family story probably colored my perception of the event for decades. 

    I remember a lighted tunnel and humanoid beings at the end of the tunnel.  They indicated that I could go with them.  I did not want to to go.  So I went back.

Background Information:   

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    1953  

NDE Elements:   

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Systemic infection - doctor apparently said after recovery that he thought I would not make it.Very high body temperature over several days treated with analgesics and alcohol rubs.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I do have a memory of perceiving my body lying on the bed.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Alert  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     lighted tunnel  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     humanoid beings  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   tunnel was lighted  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No       

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Contentment and joy.  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was 'offered the opportunity to go on' and instead decided to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:   

What is your religion now?      Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     They have changed over a very long time.  I have never been afraid of dying, much to the consternation of family and friends.  I have had several instances of anaphylactic shock and 1 myocardial infraction.  I was never in a state of fear in any of these.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

After the NDE:   

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   The family story has always been about 'Mich'l's hallucination of space aliens'  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife and children seem to just accept that that is Mich'l.  I have only shared the remembrance with others who would have some understanding.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   The anima experiences of "slow dancing with the goddess" that have arisen from my taijiquan play are quite similar.   				   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_c_nde.html