{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_dp_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael DP NDE 7200","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael DP NDE 7200  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael DP NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3653 Michael DP NDE 7200  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My sister and I were resting on a bed when she got up to use the toilet, which was separate from the house.  I decided that I would enjoy the breeze from the table fan.  The fan was actually in another room connected to a power outlet, also in the other room.  It was placed in just behind the window, which separated the two rooms.   I got out of the bed and leaned forward, onto the iron bars of the window while I caught the bars with both my hands.  I got stuck and screamed for help.  I kept screaming but in a short while, I could not scream anymore.  I was very distressed and aware that I was dying.  

Then there was peace, a very strong sense of peace and awareness of death.  I started moving upwards and away from my body.  I hardly moved a few feet when I saw my sister in the next room, reaching out to switch off the fan.  I saw her through an opening, which connected the two rooms, but that view was not possible from where my body was stuck. 

As soon as she switched off the fan, I was again in my body for maybe 2 seconds before I lost all consciousness.  I got up much later and found myself on another bed and my sister was pressing my legs.  My whole body was stiff and slowly returning to normal.  There was no damage physically and within an hour after waking up, I was able to walk and move with no difficulty.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was electrocuted by a table fan.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my sister in the next room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time I moved upwards, a sense of floating.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm not sure if I heard anything at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and calmness.  The fear and anxiety was gone.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before the experience, I was just a boy brought up in a strict Christian home but not committed.  After the experience, I slowly became agnostic and later: to Christianity.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was not aware of NDE and neither was my sister.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As I grew up I became agnostic and suppressing the experience as I could not explain it.  Reading articles and a spiritual search made me accept my experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. After the experience, I did not speak about it for many years, as I did not understand the experience.  Contrary to many, I started on an agnostic journey and denying my experience as unscientific and impossible.  It was only in my 30’s that I came to terms with my experience and I searched for answers in Islam and Christianity.  I found my answers in Christianity.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   As soon as I recovered, I asked her if she saw me floatng in the air and she looked baffled.  Again I asked her "you did not see me floating in the air like this"? (showing her my hands bent inwards).  She looked at me like I was crazy.  I never spoke about that experience to anyone again untill i read many years later about NDE in the Readers Digest.  This ensured that my story was not influenced by experiences or beliefs of other people.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have seen ghosts or spirits (very rarely) both before and after my experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I discovered that I could continue to think and be aware of my surroundings even after I am removed from my body.  There is absolutely no loss of cognitive ability.  Another significant reality was filled with terror when dying but peace: absolute peace takes over at the moment of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried sharing it with my sister when I recovered but her expression made me doubtful.  I never spoke about it to my parents or sister until many years after I found out what exactly happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience is real, because as a boy in the 80's, I could not have imagined something like this. Reading the experiences of others and later my Christian faith which says that I am a spirit residing in a body, makes me absolutely sure of my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_dp_nde.html