{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael D NDE 2028","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael D NDE 2028  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						500  Michael D NDE  2028  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I didn't know if my experience qualified, but I read a testimony on this site that had similar parameters, so here goes!

I was seven years old and had contracted Scarlet Fever. It was late at night and I was in bed. I do not remember waking. I just remember lying in bed looking through my open bedroom door into the hallway. I was not aware of my body and, as I look back on the experience, it felt as if I was lying right on top of my body sort of hovering there right above it.

Standing in the doorway at the foot of my bed was someone wearing a long, shiny, metallic looking robe. The robe went all the way to the floor covering her feet. I could not see the face because it was so bright. It radiated a very bright light but did not hurt my eyes. The light itself was love. (That's the best way I can describe it.) I could not see any facial features because of the brightness of the light, but I felt it was a woman and I knew she was smiling. I could see her long, flowing hair that seemed to merge with her gown and go to the floor with it. Her body was translucent and I could see through her. I felt no fear. I didn't seem to feel anything unusual at all. It all seemed very normal to me at the time. I felt very calm.

She was communicating to me through what I can best describe as mental telepathy. I just lay there as she radiated warmth and love to me. It wasn't so much of a two way communication as it was me calmly receiving what she was sending to me. The best way to describe it nowadays would be to liken it to downloading data on a computer from the internet. I didn't seem to fully understand what she was telling me, but I enjoyed the loving feeling she was giving me. I seem to be decoding and understanding what she told me more as time goes by. I will try to put into words what she told me. She told me that I was very special. She told me that I had a very important task to fulfill in this life. She said I would go through some hard and difficult lessons but that I would come out okay. She said I would touch many of peoples' lives. It didn't come in words like that or in separate feelings. It seems difficult even now for my brain to comprehend it.

Then, I heard my mother coming up the stairs. I then heard her walking down the hall to my room. She came into view and walked THROUGH the woman in my doorway as if she weren't there. She bent down to touch me. I then became painfully aware of my body. I was in horrific pain. I realized that I was back in my body and was very ill. My mother took my temperature and immediately put me in a cold bath to bring down my temperature. The next morning, when I asked my mother about it, she said that she bolted awake with the strong feeling to check on me. When she came in the room, she said my eyes were closed. My fever was extremely high and rushed me into a cold bath to bring the fever down.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I subsequently learned that I was having an extremely high fever. I found out later that my body temperature was far above a normal, safe temperature.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything had a crispness and real quality. If I were forced to explain it, I would say that my human brain was not clamoring and clattering away. There was no mental chatter to cloud the experience. I was free to perceive everything in a heightened way.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt completely conscious through all of it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My eyes were not affected by the bright light I was viewing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not seem to recognize her. But she definitely knew me very well. Her message to me is in my account of the event.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light from the woman's face.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm, peaceful, serene. I felt great love and peace and wisdom from the being I saw.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        As my life has progressed, it seems that the message given to me wasn't to help me in that moment, but to guide me and strengthen me as I got older. The message makes more sense to me now than it did then. It still speaks to me. There are aspects of it that I don't yet comprehend, but if my life up to now is any indication, I'm sure I will understand it more later. It's almost as if it's a puzzle that I'm trying to figure out and the key to unlocking it is time and life experience.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I went to church semi-regularly and had a strong personal belief in God.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     My experience fits with just about any religion.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I have strong Spiritual beliefs but not attached to any particular religion or dogma.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     My experience fits with just about any religion.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was very young. It's hard to gauge what was changed.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling I experienced as I viewed the being in front of me. The method of communication was not relatable to normal human interaction.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have had very 'super real' dreams that have been far more real than waking life and seem to be connected to this incident. These dreams have a definite difference from normal dreams and feel as though I am out of my body.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my mother the next morning. She claims that it shocked her because I began talking about Angels and other spiritual matters with such confidence and knowledge that she hadn't noticed before.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was a little boy and it was many years before the concept of NDE's or OBE's were ever heard of.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was asking my mother the next morning if 'she saw the lady that was in my room last night.' It was very real to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     It was a long time ago. I was very young and I was very ill. The whole incident could easily have been explained as a child's vivid hallucination brought on by high fever. I guess I take some comfort in allowing myself healthy adult skepticism. But it's not how I felt at the time.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_d_nde.html