{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2017","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n9_oct_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N9 October 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. IX.] [OCTOBER, 1884.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
OOlfTBlfTS.
PAGB PAGB
TO, our Baader•.,• .• •• •• •• .. .. 153/SpeclmeD8 of the ClasaIfIcatfon 0 Caaee
:)[eetiDga of Council •. . . .. .• •• 153 for .. Phantunus of the Ll"fIDg.P VI. 157
ElecUolll, October 3rd and 16th. 1884 •• 15S Mark TwaIn on Thought-Transference.. 166
Tho Committee onPhenomena oonnected Supplementary Llbrai;r catalogue .• •• 166
with the Theosophical 80ciety .• •• 156
TO OUR READERS..
Our friends will notice with interest the numerous additions to the
membership of the Society which we have the pleasure to record this
month. Since our last issue 17 Members and 35 Associates (including
three Honorary Associates) have joined the ranks of the S.P.R. More-
over, the lively interest in the Society which the editor found existing
in scientific and intellectual circles in the United States has led to the
formation of American Oommittees of high standing at Boston,
Philadelphia and Montreal. These Oommittees, it is hoped, will carry
on the work of the S.P.R. in'America, and at the same time the dis-
t~<1Uished names they include will strengthen the Society at home.
But the precise mode of co-operation with our transatlantic friends has
yet to be settled, and is at present under consideration.
MEETINGS OF OOUNCIL.
A Oouncil Meeting was held on the 3rd inst., the President in the
chair, when Messrs. Alexander Oalder, Edmund Gurney, F. W. H.
Myers, Edward R. Pease, Frank Podmore and J. Herbert Stack were
present.
The Minutes of the previous meeting having been read, Mr. E. T.
Nisbet, of Newcastle-on-Tyne, was elected an Honorary Associate,
under the second clause of Rule 8, in recognition of his services to the
Society. Thirty-nine new Members and Associates were elected,
whose names and addresses are given on another page.
The Oouncil recorded with regret the death of Mr. Walter H
Browne, a much esteemed member of their body, a.ri.d requested the
Hon. Secretary to convey their deep sympathy to his widow.*
A letter was received from Mr. T. O. Hastings Lees, tendering his
resignation as an Associate.
* An obituary notice will appear in the next number of the Journal.-ED.
Digitized by Google
154 Joltrnal qf Society/or Psychical Reseal'cll. [Oct., 1884.
The following donations to the Research Fund were announced,
and votes of thanks for them were passed by the Council :-The
President, £50, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, £10, Mr. H. A. Kay, £5, and
Mrs. F. \Y. H. Myers, £5.
It was agreed that a series of Meetings should be held during the
forthcoming season, and that each Meeting should be partly of a
formal and partly of a conversational character. It was also agreed to
hold two Meetings before the close of the year, the first to take place
at the end of the present month.
An intermediate Council Meeting was held on the 16th, the Rev.
W. Btainton Moses in the chair, when Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F. W.
H. Myers, Edward R. Pease, :Frank Podmore and J. Herbert Stack
were present.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read.
It was unanimously resolved that Mr. Richard Hodgson, of St.
John's College, Cambridge, be co-opted as a Member of the Council
under Rule 17.
Ten new Members and Associates, and two Honorary Associates,
whose names and addresses are given elsewhere, were also elected.
Two specimens of Psychographic Slate- Writing were received from
Mr. Hensleigh \Yedgwood as a present to the Society, and the Council
passed a vote of thanks to the donor.
It was resolved that the next Gt-neral Meeting be held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on
Friday, the 31st inst., the chair to be taken at 8.30 p.m. The
proceedings will include an account by Professor Barrett of the
prospects of Psychical Research in America, and a Telepathic Explana-
tion of some so-called Spiritualistic Phenomena by Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
It was directed that the series of "S" slips (consisting of evidence
relating to phenomena called Spiritualistic) should be placed in the
hands of the Committee on Physical Phenomena, in order that any
cases which seemed to offer a chance of further investigation might be
promptly followed up.
NOTE.
In the Proceedings, Part Vr., a case of apparition at the time o£
neath was given on the authority of Sir Edmund Hornby. This case
must be withdrawn for tho present, as it seems to have contained
several inaccuracies. The matter is being re-investigated, and it will be
explaint:!d later whether or not the inaccuracies are fundamental.
Oct., 1884.] Journal oj SocietU jol' Psucltical Researc/,.
ELEOTIONS, OCTOBER 3RD AND 16TH, 1884.
MEMBERS.
ABDY-WILLIAMS, E. M., 8, Caledonian Place, Clifton, Bristol
BAYNES, ROBERT EDWARD, M.A., Christ Church, Oxford.
1M
CAITHNESS, THE COUNTEBB OF, DUCHEBBE DE POMAR, 51, Rue de
l'UniversiM, Paris.
DAKYNS, HENRY GRAHAM, M.A., 3, Upper Belgrave Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
FOUNTAIN, ALFRED, Highfield, HiIlingham, U xhridgt>, Middlesex.
GEBHARD, MRS., 12, Platzhofl" Strasse, Elberfeld.
GLINJ5:A, MADEMOISELLE DE, 1, Rue Lincoln, Champs Elysees, Paris.
JOYCE, SAMUEL, JUNR., European Telegraph Works, Pownall Road,
Dalston, London,' E.
MURRAY-AYNSLEY, MRS., Great Brampton, near Hereford.
PORTER, MIBB, 16, Russell Square, London, W.C.
PRIM, JOSE, 188, Gresham House, Old Broad Street, London, E.C.
RAYLEIGH, CLARA LADY, 91, Onslow Gardens, London, S.W.
SMITH, R. PEARSALL, 4653, Germantown Avenue, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
SOLOVIOFF, WSEVOLOD. 48, Rue Pergolese, Paris. '
W ARRENDER, MISS, Bruntisfield House, Edinburgh.
WILSON, CHARLES M., Rose Villa, North Strand, Limerick.
WOODHOUSE, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
BRIETZCKE, MRS. HELEN KATE, 21, Applegarth Road, West
Kensington, London, W'o
NISBET, E. T., 135, Northumberland Street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
WOODHULL, MAJOR ALFRED, M.D., David's Island, Pelham, New
York, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
ALLEN, MIBB MARY GRAY, 1, Florence Terrace, Londonderry.
AMy. MIBB ANNIE F., Cross Bow, Trinity, Jersey.
BALJlAIN, MRS., Basset, Southampton.
BA.TESON, MRS., 8, Harvey Road, Cambridge.
BROWN, MRS., Moorsden, Tarbolton, Ayrshire, N.B.
DAVEY, S. JOHN, Alfriston, Hayne Road, Beckenham, London, S.E.
DAVIES, WILLIAM, Bellfield, Kingsbridge, Devon.
EDELSTEN, JOHN A., Latchford, Warrington.
GIBSON, MRS. SUMNER, Shrublands, Tunbridge Wells.
GRIFFITH, ROBERT W., M.A., The Old House, Llalldaff.
HART, S. LAVINGTON, M.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
HAYES, JOSEPH WALTON, 1, George's Street, Enniscorthy.
Digitized by Google
156 Jom'nal oj Soci'efUJor P8ychical Re8eal·cll. [Oct., 1884.
HENNINGS, REV. JAMES, Duncombe House, Kingsbridge, Devon.
H'ODDE.sCHLElDEN, DR. T. U., 9, Alfred Strasse, Hamburg.
IONlDES, CONSTANTINE A., 23, Second Avenue, West Brighton.
JEDD, MRS., The University, Glasgow.
JORDAN, MRS. LUTLEY, 22, Laxham Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
KANE, J. G. AURIOL, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
KERSEY, H. A., 4, Eslington Terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
MARTIN, W. R., Pine Craig, South Queensierry, Scotland.
METCUPE, CAPTAIN HENRY, Wateruliet Arsenal, West Troy, New
York, U.S.A. .
MILLAR, ALEXANDER, Airdrie House, 19, Orlando Road, Clapham,
London, S.E.
MOTT, FREDERICK T., F.R.G.S., Birstal Hill, Leicester.
NORWAY, ARTHUR H., Secretary's Office, General Post Offico, London,
E.C.
P ASSINGHAM, MRS., Milton, Cambridge.
RODIN, PERCY A., B.A., Tho Lays, Cambridge.
SMITH, MISS, 4653, Germantown Avenue, Philadelphia., U.S.A.
TAYLOR, MISS MARIAN, Ayton House, Great Ayton, Yorkshire.
THURSTAN, FREDERICK W., M.A., Kingsley College, Westward Ho.,
Devon. .
WILLETT, MRS., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
WITItERS, JOHN JAMR8, King's College, Cambridge.
WORKMAN, WALTER PERCY, B.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
N.B.-Members and Associates are requested to Bend information of any
ohangeofaddreutotheABSiatant-Seoretary,14,Dean'BYard,WeatminBter,S.W.
'tHE COMMITTEE ON PHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
FORTHOOMING REPORT.
tt will be recollected that in May last the Council appointed a
OOD1mit~e to inquire into the evidence for contemporary Apparitions
of ilhe Living in India-an inquiry which inevitably extends itself to
(lortain other phenomena closely linked with the alleged apparitions.
lt appears that many Members of the Society for Psychical Research
II.re much interested in this investigation; and the Committee have
t>hought it> desirable to analyse and classify a good deal of evidence
already in print, besides receiving the voluntary depositions of leading
members of the Theosophical Society. They have also collected 0.
quantity of bther evidence, hitherto unpublished, and in many instances
forwarded expressly for the use of the Committee·by the kindness
Digitized by Google
Oct.,lss..] Journal of Sooiety for PsyoMoal Research. 157
of various English, American, Russian, German, and Hindoo corre-
spondents.
The First Report of the Oommittee, which will appear, it is hoped,
in November, will therefore be a somewhat lengthy document. It will
be issued as a "Private and Oonfidential" paper, not to be offered for
sale to the general public.
One copy will be forwarded gratis to every Member. Associates (as
will be remembered) have no clai~"to the free receipt of any paper
except the published Proceedings and the Journal. But any Associate
who desires it may receive one copy of the Report on the enclosure of
a Postal Order for 2s. 6d. to the Assistant-Secretary. No Member or
Associate will be supplied with more than one copy of the Report,
which will contain matter of a semi-private character, and is not
intended for diffusion beyond the limits of the Society.
Before issue, the Report will be read at a Special Meeting of the
Society, which will be open to Members and Associates only.
SPEOIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF OASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
vt.
Up to this point the cases which we have been discussing, though,
in other respects, very various, have agreed in one main feature. They
have all partaken of an individual or subjective character; they have
been such as one man might easily experience without his neighbour's
experiencing anything of the same kind. A feeling of depression, an
internal voice, the clairvoyant perception of a distant scene ;-such
impressions as these are eminentJy individual; they appear, in their
different ways, to be operations of, Qr impacts upon, a single mind.
But we have now to consider a class of phantasms which are not
indivic;lual, but which are, nevertheless, particular, which are, in them-
selves, of such a character that they would seem to be perceptible
withequalease by all the persons present, and which, nevertheless, are not
perceived collectively but particularly; that is to say, not by the whole
group assembled, but only by one person, or certain persons, in that
group. .
It will not surprise the reader to hear that these cases form a large
and varied class. Probably, indeed, he will suppose (as we ourselves
began by supposing) that when a phantasm appears it is generally
heard or seen only by the person whom it specially concerns; that it
hovers before him alone, like the ghost of Banquo, imperceptible by
..
Ifj8 Journal of Society for P8ycltical Re8eal·ch. [Oct., 1884.
-----------------
those whom mere accident has brought to the same spot. Statistics,
however, seem to show that this is not a true representation of the facts.
In our Classified Index we have about 40 cases where an app8.l'ently
objective phantasm is thus particularly discerned, as compared with
about 100 cases where it is collectively or successively discenled; where
all the persons in the group sec or hear it, either at once or one after
the other if they are sitting, for instance, somewhat apart.
It is, moreover, soon evident that the great bulk of our cases do not
fall under either of these heads, are cases neither of particular nor of
collective perception, Lut are neutral cases, occurring, that is to say,
when the percipient is alone, and affording, therefore, no clue as to
whether other persons, if prp-sent, would have perceived the phantasm
or no. Against some 40 particular and SOllie 100 collective cases, we
Cll.n set some 260 neutral cases, which thus form a class nearly twice as
lll.rge as the two others 'Put together.
We shall Il.fterwards have to discuss the possible causes of this
appll.rent facility offered to phantasms by the solitude of the percipient.
For the present, we have to consider the proportion of particular to
collective phantasms; a proportion which, from the telepathic view, is
certainly unexpectedly small. We should have supposed that if the
apparition is evoked simply by the action of one mind upon another,
then the cases where several persons simultaneously perceived the same
apparition would be very few; as the difficulty of the explanation is
much increased by any further transference, as it were by infection,
from the primary percipient to other persons in his company.
Recognising this difficulty in the background, we must not take for
granted that even these partict~lar cases (where one sees and others do
not see) are necessarily to be counted in favour of the telepathic theory.
We must do once more as we have often done already, and shall often
have to do again, viz., pause and consider at the opening of a new
class of cases what features in these cases would point to telepathy, and
what to other possible explanations. The other explanations we have
already discerned to be at least two in number,-namely, the clair-
voyance of the percipient (with no necessary action of the s6-called
agent's at all), and that which we may call the primitive and
popular explanation, lIamely,-that the phantasm is an objective
entity, perceptible either to Itll persons present, or to all persons whose
power of spiritual or supersensual discernment has risen to a certain
level. The main points, it appears, which will need noting in discussing
~he causes of partiCt~larity of percipience, will be as follows ;-
(1) Was the percipient morp- closely linked with the agent than
the non-percipients were 1 If so, this tells in favour of
telepathy.
Digitized by Coog
Oct.,1884.} Journal Qf Society jOl' PS!JcMcal Research. 159
(2) Was he a person who had had many similar experiences, or
who was in some abnc.rmal state at the time 7 If so, this
tells in favour ·of clairvoyance.
(3) Or was he a. comparative stranger, less closely linked with the
agent than the non-percipients were 7 This would tell against
telepathy, and in favour either of clairvoyance or of the
quasi-objectivity of the pha.ntasm.
(4) Is it quite clear that the other persons present would h"ve
heard or seen the phantasm, had it been objective ~ If this
is not clear the case tends to become a neutral one, as though
the percipient had been alone at the time.
These are preliminary questions, which may be asked with regard
to all the lJarticular cases. But moreover, the particular cases are in
other respects very va.ried in character. They occur throughout at
least eight classes of cases which will hereafter need to be distinguished
at length. But we may more conveniently defer any full discussion
of the characteristics of these further classes until we come to deal
with the neutral cases, where each class is represented so much more
abundantly. For the present, although the order in which we shall
cite our particular cases will be dictated by considerations as yet unex-
plained, we shall mainly devote ourselves in dealing with each
phantasm to a consideration of the causes of its partial percipience.
First then, let us consider two cases where the object seen is vague,
with no distinct resemblance to the supposed agent. In such cases
coincidence in time is, of course, the only reason for connecting the
agent's death with the phenomenon.
From the Rev. Srephen H. Saxby, Mount Elton, Clevedon. Mr. S. M.
Saxby, the percipient, is now dead.
Abc.ut the year 1841 I W&8 in a room with my father in our house in the
Isle of Wight, when he exclaimed, "Good God, what is t,hat 1" starting
up &8 he spoke, and apparently looking at something. He then turned to
me and said that he had seen a ball of light pass through the room, and
added, "Depend upon it, Morse Simonds is dead." This W&8 an old servant
ill London, to whom he had been sending money, in illness. In course of
post came infonnation that she passed away at the very time in question.
S,H.S.
Nowhere it seems probable, though not certain, that the son would
have seen what his father saw, had it been objective. And what was
seen was a kind of momentary flash, which seems an easily-conceivable
result of 0. telepathic impact. The father's certainty that Morse
Simonds was dead somewhat corroborates this view. For we may sup-
pose that the impact from Morse Simonds upon Mr. Saxby consisted of
an idea of herself, accompanied by the vague shock which, as the vulgar
Digitized by Google
160 JouNUlI ofSocietyfor P8!Jchical Research. [Oct..188f.
saying goes, "made him see stars," externalised itself as a flash of light.
This case, therefore, may fairly be counted for the telepathic theory.
In the next case the attention of the other persons present is said to
have been explicitly directed to the phantasm, which they fail to see.
From Mr. H. C. Hurry, C.R, 2, M'alvem Terrace, Soutbaea, Portsmouth.
Januo:ry 4th, 18M.
Another cue I give fOo, vouching for it on the veracity of a brother,
long dead. whoee word was never doubted by any who knew him, and upon
whoee statement ~ would rely as confidently as upon the evidence of my own
88D1811. At the time of the occorrence he was a young man, about 23 years
of age, in perfect health, of indomitable courage, and without a taint of
superstition. Riding home from hunting, with BOrne friends, to Cheltenham,
in the looming he saw, or believed he saw, an undefinable white object keep.
ing pace with them by the side of the road; he drew the attention of his
riends to the circumstance, but they could 110t see the object. They changed
heir pace, but whether walking, trotting, or cantering, to my' brother's
mind's eye the object remained with them until they reached the lights of
the town. Thinking this very remarkable, my brother put the time down,
and this agreed exactly with the hour of the demise of a much lo\"ed aunt iu
the BOUth-west of Ireland.
In answer to inquiries, Hr. Hurry adds :-
I do not remember that my brother had ever had any othe-t visual
hallucinations.
Here it may perhaps be thought that the long duration of the
phantasm tells against its telepathic origin. This is a point which it is
impossible to determine apriori. Let us see if light is thrown upon it
by any of our previous inquiries.
. We have seen reason to believe that a mere impression of telepathic
origin may last for hours, or even days-although we havp. always felt
that there was a douht as to how far such impression needed renewal in
order to keep up its intensity, or was a mere prolongation or echo of the
original impact.
Next to take the case of dreams. Have we evidence that the same
dream-figure may persist for many minutes 7 Such evidence
would probably need to be drawn from the mutterings of the sleeper, as
otherwise his apparent recollection of the duration of a dream is of
course, valueless. Even in dreams where a tnte and prolonged action is
witnessed-clairvoyant dreams of~a complex type-itwould seemthat this
true action is sometimes dramatically compressed in thedream i-thatthe
dreamer sees in a. few moments what it takes his friend hours to endure
-just as the spectator of a French tragedy sees whole life-histories of
plot and passion compressing themselves into a. few hours of concentrated
conversation in a public square.
Next, let UlJ consider the dura.tion of mere illusive ltallucinaticms.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1884.] Joornal of Society for P8ycltical Re8eal·cl,. 161
Here we observe that the hallucinations of the insane are often very
lasting; and so are the distinctly' morbid hallucinations of sane persons.
But the casual or occasional hallucinations of sane persons, without any
nervous derangement otherwise traceable (of which class we have made
a. very large collection), seem for the most part to be almost momentary,
or at any rate to last only 0. few minutes, and to be readily dispelled by
change of postnre, &C. We have, therefore, no very clear analogies by
which to judge of the probability of the prolonged duration of a rejle;JJ
phantom,-provoked and sustained by mere telepathic impact. But we
must remind the reader that we are offering him not theorem8 but
pori8m8--not so much explanations of the cases which we collect as the
suggestion of lines of inquiry which may ultimately disentangle them.
It is said that we have a reader in Thibet who describes our Proceed-
ings as "a bag of uncracked nuts." 'Ve accept the analogy; and all
that we claim is that we are aware-which the general public is not,-
that our nuts have kernels inside them.
We give another case where the phantasm-seen by one person only,
and that the rigltt one-is prolonged for &.n hour or more, and is, in fact,
ultimately left in possession of the field.
From Mr. Louis Lyons, of 3, Bouverie Square, Folkestone.
Some time ago my son told me that a friend of his, a rough and simple-
minded fellow, had returned from Shields, and told him a curious tale. The
man is a sailor, and had served with his father lover since he waa .0. boy in a
collier which trades between this port and the North. The youth, having
become very proficient in his calling, went on his voyages, leaving his father,
now an elderly man, at llOme. During a stormy voyage, and not fur oft' the
Humber, the young sailor saw his father, whom he had left in excellent
health, pacing the deck, and calling out several times, aa he waa wont to
do-
ce Mind your helm, Joe!"
The young man wished to speak to his father, but could not; some occult
power prevented him. At the end of the voyage a letter a',vaited the young
sailor, announcing the death of the father at the precise time when he
appeared to his son; but pleaae to remark (a matter of some importance,
I think) that the apparition remained on deck some three hours, until the
veasel got to Grimsby.
I disbelieved my son's story, and requested him to ask his friend to come
and take tea with me, that I might hear the account from his own mouth.
He came. The simplicity of his manner, his plain, open.hearted account,
and I may even say his stupidity, manifested in his peculia.r diction, im-
parted an impress to his tale.
At our request Mr. Lyons interrogated Edward Sings more formally the
next time that the latter visited Folkestone. The following is the procea-
1nlTbaZ of the examination :-
" What is your name?"
"Edward Singa."
Digitized by Google
162 Journal of 8ociet1/ for P81/chical Research. [Oct., lSSI.
" When did you leave your father Jut 1"
" About ail: ye&l'll ago, on a Good Friday."
" W&8 he in good health 1Vhen you left him t "
"Yes."
"What happened on your voyage , "
" We 11'&8 in a gale of wind, and we 11'&8 running in the Humber; we
earried the main gaff away ;I 11'&8 at the wheel ateering her in. He come to
me three or four times, tapped me on'the shoulder, and told me to mind the
helm, and I told the captain my father 11'&8 drowned, or something happened
to him. After we got in, when it 11'&8 my watch. he 11'&8 walking to and fro
withme,and I went downbelow and, told my mate I could not stop up,and I did
not like to. My mate took my watch. I never could speak to my father,
for aomething kept me from doing so. I heard of my father's death a week
afterwards. No one elll8l11lw my father's spirit. My father stopped on deck
with me an hour, and I\B I could not stand it any longer I went below, and
my mate took my place. We east both anchors, and were towed into
Grimaby. My mother and sister were at my father's death·bed, and they
told me that my father aaked sever4l times whether I was in the harbour.
"I certify this to be a true account.
"EDWARD 8nms.
"Folkestone, 29th December,l882."
There iscertainly somethingaboutthis phantom whichseemsto suggest
an individuality apart from that of the frightened boy who describes it.
Its tranquil persistence, the repeated touch and call with which it meets
his spell-bound aversion, and finally the boy's apparent deliverance'
from it by mere change of place,-all these points, though capable of
being explained as mere dream-imagery clothing a reflex phantom, do
nevertheless inspire a strong doubt as to the power of a telepathic
impact to externalise itself so independently and for so long a time.
Our next case is a very singular one. A dying mother, if we may
trust our account, appears to the child towards whom her thoughts
must have turned, yet that child, while she is the only person who
Beea, is the only person who cannot identify the phantasmal form.
Dr. SpencerT. Hall, a well-known writer on forastry, &c., in his "Days in
Derbyshire" (1863, pp. 85-G) gives this relation :-
" Philip [Spencer, of Holloway, Derbyshire] and his first wife,Martha,who
11'&8 a cousin of mine, having no children of their own, adopted the little
daughter of a young woman, who went to live at Derby. The child called
them father and mother &8 soon AS she could speak, not remembering her own
parents, not even her mother. While yet very young, she one day began to
cry out that there was a young woman looking at her, imd wanting to come
to her, and according to her description of the person, it must have beenher
mother. As no one else saw the apparition, and the child continued for
more than half an hour to be very excited, Philip took her out of the house
~o that of a neighbour; but the apparition kep~ them company, talking by
'he way. They then went to another house, where it accompanied them
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1884.} Journal 0/ Society /01' PsycMcal Resem·cll. 163
still, and aeemed &8 though it wanted to embrace the cbild; but at l&8t
MnUhed in the direction oj IJerbll-as the little girl, now a young woman,
describes it-in a:flcuh of /ire. Derby is about fourteen miles diatant from
Holloway, and &8 in that day there W&8 neither railway nor telegraph, com·
munication between them W&8 much Blower than at present. As soon, how.
ever, as it W&8 poBBible for intelligence to come, the news arrived that the poor
child's motber had been burnt to death; that it happened about the time when
it saw her apparition; and, in short, that ,he was BOrrowing and crying to be
taken to the childduring tbe whole of the time between being burnt and her
expiration. This is no 'idle ghostatory,' but a simple ma.tter offact, to which
not only Philip but all his old neighbonra can testify; and the young woman
baa not only related it more than once to mo, but she told it in the samo
artleBB and earnest manner to my friend, the late Dr. Sa.mudl Brown, of
Edinburgh, who once called at the cottage with me-repeating it still more
clearly to MeBBl'B. Fowler and Wolla, on our recent visit...
This certainly seems as strong an instance 8.B could well be found of
the appea.ro.nce of the agent to that person only on whom the dying
thought'J were fixed. Naturally, we might say, the mother thinks of
her child, and the child alone receives the impression. And yet we
find that other accounts (of which we have several) of dying mothers
desiring to see their children once more, hardly bear out this impression.
Several of them are reciprocal cases; that is to say, not only does the
child or nurse see the mother but the mother sees the child, a problem
difficult of solution on purely telepathic lines. And there is a case
reported by Lady Bloomfield-though on what evidence does not exactly
appear-where it is the nur8e alone who sees the phantom of the dying
mother.
From Lady Bloomfield'B RemilimenceB, Vol. II. p. 266. " Princess
Schwartzenberg perished at Paris, at the great fire which took place at the
Austrian Embassy. She had left her youngest children at Vienna. The
Cardinal, being then a baby of six months old, W&8 in his cradle one night,
when suddenly his nnrae, an old and very respectable, but by no means either
a clever or imaginative woman, fell down on her knees and exclaimed, 'Jeau,
Maria, Joseph! there is the figure of the Princess, standing over the baby's
cradle.' Several nursery-maida, who were in the room, heard the exclama·
tion, though they saw nothing, but to her dying day the nurse affirmed the
truth of the vision, and, there being no telegra.phs then, it was not for ma.ny
days after that the news of the Princess Schwartzenberg's· untimely fate
reached Vienna."
In this case, of course, the child would be too young to see anything
itself. But the narrative suggests to us the existence of a group of
cases where the percipient sees a phantom which is in no way attending
to Mm, but busying itself over some one else. This would not be here
inexplicable on the telepathic hypothesis, as the mother's thought might
be supposed to be directed primarily to the child, and secondarily to the
nurse, impressing the latter with the subconscious idea, "The Princess
Digitized by Google
164 Journal rif Society lor P8ychical Re8earcll. [Oot., 1884.
wants to see her child"; which idea might be objectified with dream-
like imagery in the figure of the mother actually bending over the
cradle.
We give another case of a dying mother and her children, where
the two points to notice are· (1) that one daughter only saw the
phantom, although another daughter looked in the same direction;
and (2) that the child who saw the phantom did not recognise it. A
failure to recognise a phantom mus~ be considered to tell somewha.t
against the telepathic hypothesis; at least, this hypothesis becomes
more complex if we have to assume that the percipient's mind fails to
recognise the picture which it has, in a certain sense, itself created.
From Mrs. Richards, Spring Wood, Godalming.
About the year 1834or 1835* I was in a boarding school at Cadogan Place,
Chelsea, kept by ladies named Horn, where, amongst other pupils, there
were two sisters with whom I was very intimate. These girls came from a
distance. their home being in the North of England, I believe, and travelling
then being very different to what it is in these days of railways, they did not
always go home for their holidays, and consequently were not impressed by
the critical state of their mother's health.
We slept in a large dormitory, in which were several beds, the two aiaters
occupying a double bed. On a certain night, most of the girla being asleep,
and myself in the next bed to one of the sisters, who was already in bed,
and, like myself, anxil)us to be quiet, and allowed to ~o to sleep; but we
were hindered by the frolicsomeness of the younger sister, who sat outside
the bed and facing the door at the end of the room, which, I remember, was
not quite dark, either owing to moonlight or the time of year. As the elder
sister was urging her to be quiet and to get into bed, the younger one sud-
denly exclaimed, and, putting her· hands over her face, seemed greatly
agitated. As there seemed no cause for this sudden excitement, we, thinking
it was only another form of her nonsense, and fearing the noiss would bring
up the governer.s, who also slept in the room, scolded her well, upon. which
ahe G;ot into bed. Turning again to look towards the door, ahe uttered
another cry, directing her sister's attentionto tile door; but she saw nothing,
and still thought the younger one was joking. But the latter buried her
head under the clothes, and I, being very tired, went to sleep and thought
no more about this disturballce. Next morning no notice was taken of it,
and no impression seems to have been made on my mind or that of the other
girla, probably, as I now think, owing to our being accustomed to the volatile
disposition of the younger sister. However, about two days afterwards, the
sisterswere summoned intothe room of theladieBoftheschool toreceiYeletters.
Shortly after I was sent for, and found them in floods of tears, having just
heard the news of their mother's death. Being their chief friend, I was
* "Boyle's Court Guide" informs us that Mrs. and the Misses Horn Uved at
41, Cadogan Place, Chelsea, from 1836-38. We have thus a slight correction of
date, but an incidental corroboration of the external ciroomstances of the
DAl'mtive.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 188-1.] Journal qf Societ!J for Psvcllicnt Re1Jea,·cl,. 165
excuaed from lel80ns that I might be with them, and try to console them.
Aa we were approaching our room the younger sieler stopped us suddenly,
and grasping my arm with violence, ahe said, "Oh, do you remember the
oUler night when I was frigMened? I believe it was dear mamma that J
aw. Let us go back and ask more about it," or worda to that effect. We
went back to Min Hom's apartment, and on referring to the letter, we
found that their mother had died, as 'nearly as we could calculate, at the
BBlDe hour that the incident in the dormitory occurred.
This ie what the girl said she saw: A tall, slight figure in white,
resembling her mother, as ahe now thought, though she did not recognise
features, who, with outstretched arms, seemed to beckon to her.
Talking it over on the same day. abe remarked, cc Ah, I think I see now
why dear mamma appeared to me. She had often reproved me for my
giddiueu, and as she was dying, she wished to give me one more look and
repl'OGf. I will tryand be very different. I shall never forget het' warning,"
&co She appeared deeply imprened, but as the smera and I were soon
parted, and did not correspond, I lost sight of them.
This is a true account, and I believe clearly remembered by me, though
10 many years ago. Neither I nor the sieter saw the appearance, but
witnessed the effect on the girl who did Bee it, both being quite awake.
The evidence for this case, as will have been observed, is somewhat
!'emote in time. But if we accept the recollected story as accurate, it is
interesting as shoWing how unpromising a hallucination may a.fterwards
tum out to have been veridical. That a frolicsome, excited child should
have pretended to see, or fancied that she saw, something which no
one else saw, and which she could not even describe, might seem (as it
did seem to her friend and her sister) an occurrence too trivial for
recollection. Yet an event occurred which raised its triviality into
tragic meaning.
On the whole, then, these particular cases, as we have called them;
-cases where one person perceives and others fail to perceive the
phantasm ;-do not point to a telepathic origin quite so distinctly as
might perhaps have been expected. They suggest some new difficulties;
and it is plain that we must work our way through a good deal more of
evidence before we can feel at all confident as to the genesis of the
various forms of veridical hallucination. In the next paper we will
consider some of the neutral cases,-where the percipient is alone at
the time of the presentation of the phantasm.
F. W. H. MVERS.
Digitized by Google
,..'
166 Jourllal qf Soc;ety lor Psychical Resea1·ch. [Oct., 188'.
M.ARK TWAIN ON THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
[The following characteristic letter from Mr. S. L. Clemens (Mark
Twain) will, doubtless, entertain many of our readers.-En.]
Hartford, Conn., October 4tl" 1884.
DEAn SIR,-I should be very glad indeed to be made a Member of
the Society for Psychical Research; for Thought-transference, as you
call it, or mental telegraphy as I have been in the habit of calling it,
has been a very strong interest with me for the past nine or ten years. I
have groWJ,l so accustomed to considering that 0.11 my powerful impu~
come to me from somebody else, that I often feel like a mere amanuensIS
when I sit down to write a letter under the coercion of a strong impulse :
I consider that that ot.her person is supplying the thoughts to me, and
that I am merely writing fromdictation. And I consider that when that
other person does not supply me with the thoughts, he has supplied me
with the impulse, anyway: I never seem to have any impulses of my own.
Still, may be I get even by unconsciously furnishing other people with
impulses.
I have reaped an advantage from these years of constantobservation.
For instance, when I am suddenly and strongly moved to write a letter
of inquiry, I generally don't write it-because J know that tllat other
person is at that moment writing to tell me the thing 1 wanted to know,-
I have moved him or he has moved me, I don't know which,-but any-
wa.y I don't need to write, and so I save my labour. Of course I some-
times act upon my impulse without stopping to think. My cigars
come to me from 1,200 miles away. A few days ago,-September 30th,
-it suddenly, and very warmly occurred to me that an order made three
weeks ago for cigars had as yet, for some unaccountable reason,
received no attention. I immediately telegraphed to inquire what the
matter was. At least 1 wrote the telegram and was about to send it
down town, when the thought occurred to me, "This isn't necessary,
they are doing something about the cigars now-this impulse has
travelled to me 1,200 miles in half a second."
As I finished writing the above sentence a servant intruded here to
say, "Thecigars have arrived,andwe haven'tany money downstairsto pay
the expressage." This is October 4th,-you see how serene my confidence
was. The bill for the cigars arrived October 2nd, dated September
30t/~1 knew perfectly well they were doing something about the cigars
that day, or 1 shouldn't have had that strong impulse to wire an inquiry.
So, by depending upon the trustworthiness of the mental telegraph,
and refraining from using the electric one, 1 saved 50 cents-for the
poor. [I am the poor.]
Companion instances to this have happened in my experience so
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1884.] Journal oj Societ!l fol' PS!lchical Reseal·ck. 16t.
frequently in the past nine years, that I could pour them out upon
you to utter weariness. I have been saved the writing of many
and many a letter by refusing to obey these strong impulses. I always
knew the other fellow was sitting down to write when I got t.he impulse
-so what could be the sense in both of us writing the same thing 1 People
are always marvelling because their letters "cross" each other. If they
would but squelch the impulse to write, there would not be any crossing,
because only the other fellow would write. I am politely making an
exception in your case; you ha.ve mentally telegra.phed me to write,
possibly, and I sit down at once and do it, without a.ny shirking.
I began a chapter upon "Mental Telegraphy" in May, 1878, and
added a pa.ragraph to it now and then during two or three years; but I
have never published it, because I judged that people would only laugh
at it and think I wal.' joking. I long ago decided to not publish it at
all; but I have the old MS. by me yet, and I notice one thought in it
which may be worth mentioning-to this effect: In my own case it
has often been demonstrated that people can have crystal-cleal' mental
communication with each other over vast distances. Doubtless to be
able to do this the two minds have to be in a peculiarly favourable con-
dition for the moment. Very well, then, why shouldn't some scientist find
it possible to invent a way to create this condition of rapport between
two minds, at will 1 Then we should drop the slow and cumbersome
telephone and say, "Connect me with the brain of the chief of police at
Peking." We shouldn't need to know the man's language; we should com-
municate by thought only, and say in a couple of minutes what couldn't
be in.fla.ted into words in an hour and a-half. Telephones, telegraphs
and words are too slow for this age; we must get something that is
faster.-Truly yours,
S. L. CLEMENS.
P.S.-I do not mark this "private," there being nothing furtive
about it or any misstatements in it. I wish you could have given me a
call. It would have been a most welcome pleasure to me.
DONATIONS TO SPECIAL FUND.
.Receil1ea aince last announcement.
Profellor H. Sidgwick
Mr. F. W. H. Myers
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood...
Mr. H. A. Kay
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers
Mr. R. Pearaall Smith
£50 0 0
35 0 0
20 0 0
500
500
500
Digitized by Google
168 JOll1'nal f!f Society for Psgcltical Rcseal'cll. [Oct., 1884.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The following additiom hatle been made since last month.
[Rlindicates that the book is for reference only.
BRAID (James, M.R.C.S.E., C.M.W.S., &c.) Neurypnology; or, the
Rationale of Nervous Sleep (a ItCOM copy) •...••.....••.••••London, 1843
- - - Observations on Trance; or, Human Hybernation..•London, 1850
ESDAILE (James, M.D.) Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance (a aecond
copy) ••.••.••••••••••..••..••.•••.••.••••••••••..••••••••.•..••••...•••••.London, 1852
EsOTERIC PHILOSOPHY (Hints on) •...........•........2nd Edit. Calcutta, 1882
MITCHELL (J.), (and In. Dickie) The Philosophy of Witchcraft
Paisley, 1839
OLCOTT (Colonel Henry S.) Lectures on Theosophy and Archaic
Religions ............................................................ Madras, 1883*
[R] PAMPHLETS, English, Vol. VI. (12 Articles on Mythology and
Demonology).
1. Review of Horst's Zauber·Bibliothek....The Foreign Quarterly
Review............... ...... ...... ........................ .......................... 1830
2. Review of Balverte's Des Sciences Occultes ................................. 1830
3. Review of Creuzer's Bymbolik und Mythologie ........................... 11129
4. Review of two works on Judaism ........................................... 1833
5. Review of two works on Grecian Mythology and R~ligion ............ 1831
6. Serpent Worship, or Ophiolatry .........The St. James's Magazine, 1862
7. Tree and Serpent Worship .....................The Comhill Magazine,
8. A Glance at the Theology of Homer .................................TitaD, 18!)8
9. Review of three works on Druidiem.........'fha Edinburgh Review, 1863
10. Review of Home's Incidents in my Life, and Howitt's History of
the Supernatural .................................The Quarterly ReView, 1863
11. Sacred Trees and Flowers ........................................................ 1863
12. Review of Mackav's Memoirs of PopUlar Delu8ions....The Edin-
burgh Review' ..................................................................... 1844
[R] PAMPHLETS, English, for Vol. VII.
CRUIKSHANK (George) A Di8covery conc~miDg Ghosts. 2nd Edit. London, 1864
LILLIE (A.) Koot Hoomi Unveiled ............................... ......London, 1884
[R] PAMPHLETS (Theosophical.) if.
MONA SINGH: A Sketch, by D. M. B.............. ....................(Jalcutta, 1884
OLCOTT (Henry S.) A Buddhist Catechism ............Colombo and London 1882
RKPORT of Eighth Anniversary of Theosophical Society .........Madf'al, 1884
TRANSLATION (A) }'rom the Sanskrit. By S. Ramaswamier ...Madra., 1884
WILKINSON (James John Garth, M.R.C.S.) The Human Body, and
its Connection with Man.............................................London, 1851
WITCHES OF RENFREWSHIRE (A History of the) ...New Edit. Paisley, 1877
THEOSOPIIICAL MISCELLANIES, Nos. 1 and 2. ..................... Calcutta, 1883*
LIEGEOIS (Jules) De la Suggestion Hypnotique dans ses Rapports avec
Ie Droit Civil et Ie Droit Criminel .................................Paris, 1884
MA.RICOURT (R. Comte de) Souvenirs d'un Magnetiseur .........Paris, 1884
DAUMER (Prof. G. W.) Das Reich des Wundersamen und
Geheimniszvollen ................................................Regensburg, 1872
Du PREL (Dr. Carl) Die Philosophie der Mystik ..................Leipzig, 1885
HELLENBACH (L. B.) Die Magie dar Zahlen .....................Vienna, 1882
MEYER (Johan Friedrich von) Blatter fUr hOhere Wahrheit, 11 vols.
bound in 6 .....................................J/rankjmot and Berlin, 1818-1832
PREYER (Professor W.) Die :Kntdeckung der Hypnotismus ...Berlin, 1881
-~~ -;--~-=--~:-::-=---,---------­
* Presented by the Theosophical Society.
Digitized by Coog
