{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1michael_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Michael A NDE 4083","mylang":"de"}
          	        Michael A NDE 4083  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Michael A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1963 Michael A NDE 4083  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was floating in a nonphysical form toward a blue/purple gas planet. I felt so much love and understanding words cannot express. My second image, and it was one of the most realistic feeling, I was there in physical form riding on the front of an old sailing ship. I could smell food cooking and I felt the presence of something telling me I need to 'Go back and learn to LOVE the right way.'

I woke up in pain and in the intensive care unit. I was in a coma for twenty-one days. The medical reports stated that I had died twice. Once when the paramedics put me in the ambulance and I was on my way to the emergency. The second time the doctors revived me was eight days later during my chest surgery. The doctors told me upon my release date that I should not be walking or talking, they said I was a true miracle. There are many more details and I have my medical document to prove my accident.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/27/09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Surgery-related. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the sailing time of my experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the sailing time of my experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was not of form, but of sprit and I felt it also I knew at that time I was in a sprit form, full of total LOVE and completeness in every form of understanding.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In my vision I saw and felt everything around me. I had a 360 degree view and feel.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear communication or language. I felt communication in my head and soul.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was floating and sailing in a ocean for many days

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was both spirit and physical.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was told to 'Go back and learn to love the right way.'

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There is no one religion. There is only this physical world we live in now and this physical world is a stepping stone to the perfect sprit world I experienced.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is no one religion. There is only this physical world we live in now and this physical world is a stepping stone to the perfect sprit world I experienced.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Look above I just explained it and I'm not going to explain it again.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of where I was and how I now see the world. I cannot explain it in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I now can feel LOVE from people in a different way. I now have not HATRED.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six weeks.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was afraid of sharing any of my experience. Because if I did, the hospital wanted me to go to a mental rehab center for twelve weeks and I did not want to go. I asked to be given the end of course exam for their mental health rehab test. Before I went to prove I was competent as an adult. I passed the test good and did not have to go to mental health rehab.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It changed my understanding of how I should live and love while I'm here in this three dimensional plane. The time here is so fast, like a blink of an eye compared to the spirit world I experienced.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1michael_a_nde.html