{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melvin_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Melvin H NDE 3251","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melvin H NDE 3251  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melvin H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1182  Melvin H NDE  3251  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was a very wet morning and we were going to change out electrical transformers at building #445 and replace them with new types of transformers. Our work leader instructed us to kill the voltage to the transformers we were going to work on. My tool buddy asked why we couldn't kill all the voltage in the transformer enclosure? Our work leader said, 'No, just work it more carefully.' Into the change out about fifteen minutes, my tool buddy dropped his wrench. I told him I would push it out to the other side with my hot stick and at that time I was hit by 7,200 volts going through my middle finger on my right hand and exiting through both feet into the concrete, burning my foot prints into the concrete. I was slammed into the side of the building so hard that the paint of the building was impacted into my work jacket. My tool buddy removed my body from out the work area and started giving me CPR, he was raising up and asked the rest of our crew for help. My work leader told him what's the use he's dead.

While all of this was going on, I was looking down on him and my body.  Then I started out on a journey. I went over the top of building #100 which is referred to as the Taj Mahal, and I was able to describe the very elaborate roof tiles on the roof. At this time, I went back through my life seeing people I loved very dearly but were already dead. I went back to a time that my grandfather was holding me and he died in 1943. At that time, I was brought back to life as I was fixing to enter into this very brilliant light area, like a fog, that I had been traveling to during my journey.

Everybody started saying I was crazy when I would tell them of my experience. This is a very short version of my experience during this time. I would gladly fill anyone in on the rest of my story if they were interested. I was clinically dead for around five minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'November 19, 1982'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident  Received electrical voltage of 7600 volts entered thru finger and exited thru feet  Other Electrical burns on hands and feet.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was fully alert all the way through my experience I thought I was dreaming.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    It was as if I was traveling through a dark tunnel towards this brilliant light, but it didn't hurt to look at this light. But I could look towards either side of me and see parts of my life's past passing by me.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    In looking towards the parts of my life I was passing I would call out to the people or loved ones of my life, and I could hear what was going on but they didn't hear me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was as if I was traveling through a tunnel on my way to this great brilliant light.  When I finally reached it, it was like a great fog and I was starting into it when I was brought back by my tool buddy and a young female airman who came to help my tool buddy, when no one else would help him.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw my loved ones who had died in years past; I saw them in scenes to my right and left as I traveled through this tunnel. I would call out to them but they didn't hear me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was the most brilliant light that anyone could imagine, more brilliant than the sun, but it didn't hurt to look at it. And when I did get to it, it was like a fog, I was starting into it when I was brought back.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Great relief from my body I didn't feel any pain or stress. It was the greatest feeling I've ever felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I just saw my loved ones from my life at different ages of my life it was as if I went back through my life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I got more involved with my church, and my pastors.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I got more involved with my church, and my pastors.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I've learned to love my family more and get better relations with friends.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was hard for me to tell my wife that I didn't want to come back due to the great feeling I enjoyed during my experience. My body didn't hurt anymore I was completely at ease.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It showed me that there is another life after this one is over, it just wasn't my time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I started telling about my experiences shortly after my recovery, and most people thought I was crazy, but a lot of people listened to my story. A close golfing buddy died and I told his family of my experience, because he had suffered a lot before he died, and I explained that he wasn't hurting anymore, and was in a better place.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I know that I was looking back down on my body and my tool buddy was dragging it out to a place to work on it, and he was asking my other workers to help him, and our work leader said what's the use he's dead.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I know that it was real because everyone said I was dead, for about five minutes, and then the young female airman came and started helping Rocky, my tool buddy and that's when I came back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Only that I was dead and saw my body on the ground and I was like twenty or thirty feet in the air looking back at it before I started my travels down through the tunnel to the light.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melvin_h_nde.html