{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mf_nde.html","mytitle":"MF NDE 21146","mylang":"de"}
          	        MF NDE 21146  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					MF NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						784  MF NDE  21146  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

First Experience:  My friends and I were typical teenagers looking for an 'alternative experience'.  We'd heard about hyperventilating while crouching, then standing up quickly while someone held you tightly around the stomach.  The result is oxygen deprivation to the brain, causing light headedness, or, in my case, blackout. A few moments after I blacked out 'I' was in the same room but hovering around the ceiling looking down on my body lying on the floor with my friends standing next to me.  The room was the same, but entirely illuminated.  I felt calm with a sense of 'knowing'. I was not in a physical form but was part of the light.  I was the light. I was watching my friends panic as they realized I wasn't breathing after our experiment.  I was watching them gently kick me as they tried to wake me up and I felt annoyed that they were doing this to my body.  I felt like yelling to them, ‘hey, I'm up here and I can see what you're doing’.  Instead, I returned to my body to tell them 'in person' that they could stop kicking me. I was ok!


The second experience was during sleep.  I thought I was dreaming, but I was watching myself, watch myself sleeping.  Again, the 'I' that was doing the final observation of myself, was not in human form but formed part of the atmosphere of the room.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    '1987, 2006'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Fainting due to lack of O2 and sleep   Fainting due to deliberate oxygen restriction/sleepYes for the first experience and No for the second experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  'I' formed the light. I was the light in the room looking via visual means at the scene below.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert in the first experience, not clear in the second experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was not from a single point source.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see and hear as if 'I' was still in the room.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm and a feeling of knowing and understanding.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     What we perceive as 'I', the body, is not.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Once I saw my friends kicking me in their panic to wake me up, I decided I needed to go back to stop them from what they were doing.  I was watching them and I didn't want them to keep doing it.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Dreams that have become reality, dreams that have told me of something that was going on that I didn't know about at the time. Like three planes crashing into buildings two weeks before 9/11 or waking one morning to tell my husband I had a dream his friend was having an affair with a blonde.  To find out that night it was true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The experience itself was the best. Not being able to readily chat to people who actually believe in what you're saying is the worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only told a couple of people. I don't think they believed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mf_nde.html