{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1merida_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Merida R NDE 6904","mylang":"de"}
          	        Merida R NDE 6904  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Merida R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3457 Merida R NDE 6904  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a severe depression. I was drinking too much. My love life was not good. It was the fall, now I call it the autumn, in NYC. It was a sort of Holly Go-lightly gone totally awry. I used to joke and call it Holly Go-heavy. There was a Disco song by Teri DeSario; I played until the groove wore out. I wanted to sleep after several Remy Cognacs, so I took a few sleeping tabs. Then I realized that Mom had told me never mix these things. I grabbed a phone, dialed 911, ran to the bathroom tried to get sick. 

I saw myself over my body, I watched myself on the bed as the paramedics tried to revive me. Then there was the tunnel, the infamous tunnel. I went down the tunnel. It is hard not to go down the tunnel, as the accepted joke now is ‘just the tip,’ it never happens! You have no reason not to go through the tunnel! I was whirling around the earth. 

First, I saw limbo: Spirits who had no idea. Like no clue. They spun around the earth like helpless ghosts. I don't want to waste time, much like the clueless dead. 

I found myself over the Caribbean, (dare I say Devil's Triangle?), in the ethos, and in the stars. I WAS ASKED A QUESTION. It was big, it was great, and there was no choice to answer incorrectly. I saw heaven. It was full of beautiful children, all singing like a child's choir. All I could think of was the Holy Spirit. Later I was asked, ‘why children’, I say, ‘of course the children, the blameless, the helpless’.  I had no personal choice, my answer was, NO. 

It had the idea of, had I lived a life of love and giving? I don't really remember. But I hadn't. I felt I really couldn't say yes. It was binary: YES/NO. No judgment. I had just the wish to be ready. Knowing then my only other choice was to go back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/09/79

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I felt intensely that my life had come to an apex. It was not as much of a life-threatening event as a life-exasperating event. I sensed that on the change of that decade that the changes were as monumental as they turned out to be. There was soon, thereafter, in my world, the plague of HIV where I lost hundreds of friends.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The actions that were taken over my body to revive it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The ‘question’. Later I wrote a poem called ‘Bring back the ‘question’. What was this binary ‘question’ asked of me, by dare I say, GOD? I dare not presume.  I know that in this grand presence I knew, to say ‘No’. I knew I was not there, I knew I had not arrived at that plane. No angst, no remorse, no regret, just resolve to arrive.  Higher, it was as if almost, shocked to see clearly. Knowing that what I saw was true. There could be no convincing me otherwise. In my heart of hearts I am truly convinced what I saw was true.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was more ethereal, almost dare I say Sci-Fi. The moment of my ‘question’, I had no body; the voice had no body. Like two voices at the most relaxed point of a massage.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The words weren't English. They were like binary words. I knew I understood them, I knew I could answer them. But I have no Idea what they were.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They had no idea. These people could not answer the ‘question’ and were stuck in limbo. I don't know how to explain it, but there are those who know and there are those who live in a darkness of their own choosing.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright up to the right hand side.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Yes as if above the earth. Very high, it felt like it was above the devil's triangle.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Removed or questioning as to, ‘where am I?’ Absence of emotion at all, but it was not negativity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Whatever a quandary was before was now clear. I wasn't sad, or missing anything.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Episcopal-Christian. C of E. Church of England.  some what Buddist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Episcopal, different from protestant, as more high Church, close to RC but with Marriage for priests, no confession, and divorce. Less dry than protestant. For me personally, throw in some buddhism.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I may have believed or as they say given "lip service" to but after my experience, my conviction to what I was now very sure of was cemented.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More purpose.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There was a ‘question’, a definite ‘question’. It was not in a real language although I understood it. There was no choice and my answer was ‘NO’.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Love, it was something to do with Love. have you loved your fellow man , have you done all you can, have you lived for this, was all in one question. LoL Am I Mother Theresa. the answer is NO

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     You have another chance. as in Buddhist, Tibetan book of the dead.You are not truly you as you are now, but you can get to, heaven, nirvana.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Some how the question is presented. God, the being in all of us, I think a supreme being. This binary question is too big.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel, I see, I know, I watch people act the fool. I am always surprised to see fools, people who will live in limbo.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Like the Beatles. LOVE LOVE LOVE

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is Nirvana or Heaven. And re-incarnation , when the answer is no.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     How to live my life to answer yes. That is, have I helped mankind, have I aided in positive evolution, have I even done anything in that direction?

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They are nothing, people who become obsessed with them go to limbo. let go and let god. . .

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love one another, more about love than any other principal.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life, seeing a destination, realizing there is somewhere to go.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It was like, brand in the most relevant , sci-fi /religious experience you can ever have in you life. know in your heart of hearts it is real , words to live by, then try to move forward with everyone else.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started reading Tarot cards quite well.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The ‘question’, I understood it anyway, and how or why. What was it? This ‘question’: bring back the ‘question’, the non-lingual ‘question’; or the answer.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1merida_r_nde.html