{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mhb_nde.html","mytitle":"MHB NDE 3771","mylang":"de"}
          	        MHB NDE 3771  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					MHB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1764 MHB NDE 3771  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After minor surgery (I had a hysterectomy to remove cancerous cells) I caught a so-called 'hospital virus'. So ten days after my hysterectomy my abdomen was black with infection (septic) and since all their antibiotics failed to cure the infection they decided to do an emergency laparotomy and they inserted eight drains. I was in the hospital for a total of five weeks, heavily sedated with morphine. What happened to me in the operating room I have wanted to keep secret and I thought of the phenomenon as though perhaps it had been hallucinations due to the anesthesia and the morphine.

But I know that's not possible since after the surgery they put me in the intensive care unit and I was still unconscious.

It's simple: When I SAW myself, I was above my body. I knew it was not my time to die. So I came back into my body. The only other person I saw was an Asian wearing surgery greens.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related  'suite à une chirurgie mineure (Hystérectomie afin d'enlever des cellules cancéreuses ), j'ai attrapé ce que les docteurs ont appelé : ''un microbe d'hopital ''.Donc 10 jours après l'hystérectomie mon abdomen était noir d'infection (septicémie)et tous les  Other 'pendant longue et importante chirurgie , sous anesthésie ,dans salle d'opération'  The laparotomy saved my life. But I didn't know just how gravely ill I was. Those people who came to visit me told me that the infection was in fact killing me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Everything was clear and lucid during the whole time that I was outside my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time stopped while I was above my body.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't seek to look around at anything: I had a fixed view, as though I did not possess the ability to see outside of a certain perimeter. If the Asian man in surgery greens had not come into my field of vision, I don't know if I would have seen him either. In general my eyes do not cease to move around and observe the 36,000 things that surround us.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound at all. More like being enveloped in cotton.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only the Asian man. I had never seen him before. Nothing was said.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wellbeing, Serenity, Gentleness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholique

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholique

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Yes, long after this experience and remembering it, a feeling of having seen the TRUTH. But also the impression of having lost the keys to this truth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I touched death but it's only the death of my body. I have less fear of death.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I would say YES: at that time (1977) you didn't speak about such things. Today I say NO. Having gotten older, I care less and less what other people think of me. What matters is what I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Sometimes, only if someone says he has also gone through something similar - except that I'm not as interesting since the others seem to have experienced light and tunnels. I don't trust myself! Therefore no one influences my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      For a long time I believed it was my brain playing tricks on me. People weren't ready to hear this kind of story.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Science will one day prove what caused my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mhb_nde.html