{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mellony_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Mellony C NDE 4915","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mellony C NDE 4915  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mellony C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2516 Mellony C NDE 4915  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had not long been given two cats. I am semi-handicapped and rely on help from others for daily tasks and assistance with mobility. This day I was clearing out a cat box, which contained ammonia, and I am careful to have my windows open when doing this. Unfortunately, as I was cleaning the box I fell from my wheelchair and landed near the box. I was unable to move away from the box and began to inhale the fumes. As I struggled to breathe, I knew I was in a dangerous situation as I began to feel very unwell. I quickly began to sense a tightness on my chest and began vomiting. Suddenly I felt my head feel full of pressure, which felt similar to wearing a tight hat. For some reason I began to feel at peace and knew I was safe but didn't know why. As the feeling increased, I was suddenly propelled out of my body and could see my body beneath me lying on the cork flooring beside the cat box.

I began to feel a pulling sensation and knew I was travelling very quickly. During this time, I could hear music and bells ringing all around me. Suddenly it went black and I could see nothing but felt at ease. I wondered why I was in darkness and thought maybe I was trapped. Quickly a light appeared to my left and I felt attracted to it. My self felt like an energy full of power and love. I could hear the vibe and voices of other ladies and men who were passing over to be with the holy mother with sure love and warmth. I could hear a strange language spoken to me. It told me that my daughter who is mentally challenged would receive a great reward in the future and that I would find love for my very ill grandmother. I was told I had to go back. As soon as this was said, I was pulled away and entered my body through my head.

My support worker had arrived and I was being given oxygen. When I was taken to hospital, I was told I was very lucky to have survived. Even more amazing my grandmother whom I had not spoken to for twenty years or more was in a ward very close to me. We ended up forgiving each other on my second day in hospital and have been so close ever since. Eleven years after this event happened to me my daughter received treatment, which has greatly improved her quality of life. I will always remember my experience and have no fear of death now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I inhaled fumes from a cat box which contained ammonia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While in the darkness and towards the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in the darkness and towards the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My sight was 360 degrees and I could see close and far at the same time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feelings of complete love and acceptance and loss of my physical and mental handicaps.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My daughter did receive treatment and my relationship with my grandmother was repaired when I ended up in hospital because of the exposure to the ammonia fumes.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel at one with others and my feelings of love and compassion for others is so strong now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   While having the experience, I could understand a new language which I have never heard before.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mellony_c_nde.html