{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melissa_nde.html","mytitle":"Melissa NDE 363","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melissa NDE 363  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melissa NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1359 Melissa NDE 363  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After I was taken to hospital and in coma, I distinctly remember things. I remember telling my family to turn off lights and shut blinds because it was too bright in the room. They tell me the lights are off and it is 9:00 at night. I remember telling my parents about an angel floating next to my TV screen. I remember a man in a white gown standing beside doctors as they examined me. I remember meeting my grandparents who died before my birth. I was able to tell things I never would have known otherwise. I can't describe all I've been through in this little amount of space/time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 23rd, 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Had tree limb fall on me...  Clinical death In coma for six months.  Received Traumatic Brain Injury. Maintaining a 4.0 in college.  Had tree limb fall on me and take my life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself lying in bed with people shouting for me to wake up, but could do nothing to wake myself up.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In coma for six months. Not conscious, unaware of people around me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They walked into the hospital room - my deceased grandparents I had never met. Asked questions about how I enjoyed life.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Was usually bright in room, until times where all was dark.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very depressed. Guilty for what I put others through. Always questioning why this happened to me. Grateful to experience such nice times in my life. Thus far.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Never take anything in life for granted!!! You never know when it could all disappear.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew loved ones wanted me to return, but were choosing to pull plug on life support, fearing that they would not like what I returned as. This really hurt, I tried yelling, 'What are you thinking?!?!'  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Your last day could be tomorrow. Do everything in your power to accomplish all possibilities around you.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To admit that I was clinically dead for two and half minutes, on life support for three months. Hard to believe I was once dead but have been given life back.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am stubborn. It took such a long period of time to be able to walk, talk, or live life as a 'normal' person does.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    All have been shocked. Have been donating blood for me, if I ask them to. This has increased the blood supply in the area.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       What were friends/ family member's reactions?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melissa_nde.html