{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melissa_e_fde.html","mytitle":"Melissa E FDE 8069","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melissa E FDE 8069  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melissa E FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			4201 Melissa E FDE 8069  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was going to work on my motorcycle, when I saw a car in front of me, at an intersection. But the drivers face was blocked by a telephone pole, I thought quickly, 'What if?' and the car pulled out in front of me.  The driver's mouth dropped. 
 
 Before I hit the car, I was down a tunnel falling, travelling at a great rate of speed. It was pink on the sides of the wall and it looked like it went on forever.  Then I saw a light in the distance.  There seemed to be a few people there. I didn't have any fear, as there was such a longing to go back to such a peaceful place.  The whole thing was very peaceful.  Whoever it was there, they were happy to see me and I was overjoyed to see them.  There was a main person in a flowing white robe who was greeting people.  The next thing I remember is He touching me on the head and telling me I wasn't ready yet.  Then I was sucked back into my body and aware that the woman who pulled out in front of me was crying. 
 
 (I was able to see this tunnel again, when I had my first colonoscopy, years later.) 
 
 After this experience 36 years ago, it has been an interesting time.  I didn't know anything about NDEs until I saw a movie called 'Revelation' where a woman went over a cliff and still lived.  I believe that I am alive for many reasons, but not least, I am here for my sons. They are here to save the world and my music changes peoples' lives. I affect different people in different ways. I don't know how or what, I just happen to be in the right place at the right time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/28/1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Other: I left my body before I hit the car. A car pulled out in front of me when I was on a motorcycle and traveling at a high rate of speed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I left my body before I hit the car.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I never experienced anything like this in my normal world. Of course, my world had times where I thought it was far from normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire time, I felt at a high level of consciousness; until I came back into my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I hadn't died then. I had been scared of death. I was looking down the road and saw a car. Then it pulled out when I was just crossing the intersection. Then I was out of my body but I felt I was in a body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing I didn't notice. I will think about this more.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was pink...when I had my first colonoscopy it was like that.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     It was as if I had arrived before my time.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was a light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Actually no, it was familiar like I had come home.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was as if I was on a roller coaster ride, not knowing what experience is around the bend.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Had been seeking religions as a young child

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I believe it is our creation or our dance to do until we are told to stop breathing..   We don't leave until it is time...

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     There was no judgment; no one is sitting there with my life being reviewed to see if I was good or bad.  There wasn't a gate to pass through.  It was the most loving place.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel the words 'free choice' come into reality here.  Now I feel like the entire thing is up to our choices.  We are the ones who choose to fear.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Yes, the person, he was very familiar.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   It was a person in a robe.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     I have received more information while thinking of who we really are.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     I felt a sense of peace that I never felt before.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I felt love as never before.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     The way I feel about life the way I feel about death and the way I feel about what we do in between these two.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some things I'm told are hard to believe.  For instance, judgment when you die, I was taught you have to be saved or else you don't go to heaven.  Now I feel that basic Christianity reads like something out of someone's control book.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How do you tell anyone what had happened?

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am older now and have seen many things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has been over 30 years and I still view it as yesterday.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because of my experiences in between

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melissa_e_fde.html