{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melissa_nde_22910.html","mytitle":"Melissa NDE 22910","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melissa NDE 22910  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melissa NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3570 Melissa NDE 22910  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting in the dirt watching my dad make a horse for me out of wood. I was so excited at the thought that I was going to have a pony that I squeezed my dog with a tight hug and it turned to bite me in the face. my first memory of the OBE was my seeing my father lifting me over the fence to hand me to the neighbor on the other side telling my mom to get the dog away. I heard screams and saw my mom dragging the dog to the back yard and my sister and brother calling the police I remember telling them without speaking to be calm. It was my sister who was actually talking on the phone. My dad jumped the fence and was holding my hand and the ambulance came down the street. I remember seeing myself convulsing and then nothing until after at the hospital where I remember seeing a bunch of men trying to strap me down and they gave me a shot then the men walked out of the room and I dont remember a thing until I was basically waking from a dream so it felt.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was bit in the face above and in the corner of my eye by a German Shepherd when I was 3  years old.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was no appearance I just was

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       100%

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     my sense of time was that it didn't matter

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a voice telling me that everything is ok

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was bright and cloudy kind of like I was in a room with a see thru floor

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright all around like a bright cloud. I was also lite up like a bright ora around me

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I didn't smell or touch anything I just heard saw and felt emotion

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt observant and curious

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew it was alright I had no fear or worry

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw the event like a movie and I was the one who had been bit

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware it was time to go back I could hear the doctors and my mothers voice as she said shes waking up  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I didn't fear death. I believe in a higher power. I have faith  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     after that I saw two shadow figures at the foot of my bed whispering about how cute I was

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was peaceful and I was sad that it was my fault my dog got put to sleep

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    they shared their experiences and knowledge of things that are so called taboo

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melissa_nde_22910.html