{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melinda_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Melinda C NDE 9477","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melinda C NDE 9477  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melinda C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE;Drug Experience  						5095 Melinda C NDE 9477  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was in an abusive relationship and suffering from post-partum depression. My mother-in-law, at the time, came over.  She took my newborn child and told me that they were not going to let me and my husband raise him. My husband had left earlier that evening to go out.  I was so depressed, I took drugs to leave this world.  I couldn't go on living if they were going to take my child.  My husband came home and found me on the floor in the bathroom and unconscious. His mom was a nurse, so he called her and she came over right away to help bring me back to consciousness.  They called an ambulance to come and get me.  At the hospital procedures were started to reverse the overdose. I was in and out of consciousness during this time but several days later my condition severely deteriorated. Tubes were inserted into my body to help me breathe and get nutrients. My liver was completely failing. 

  I was life-flighted to another hospital. When my family arrived, the specialists asked if they wanted to put me in the transplant list.  They said tht since I had attempted suicide, that maybe they should just let me go. But, my father had died from suicide and my step-dad did not want to put my mother through that again.  He talked the medical specialists into putting me on the list.

  Being on the other side is the most wonderful feeling and it’s truly something I cannot explain with words. It’s not a “thinking” thing. It’s more of a feeling that is the most authentic, pure feeling even beyond what we can imagine with our minds or senses. I know that there was light and a passage from the darkness heading into the light.  It’s so hard to describe the light because it’s so bright and vivid with colors that are not on earth.  What I know from my experience is that I passed through some realm and then hovered around, while entities of energy, light and sound connected with my energy field.  We communicated without words.  I was trying to get across to them that I liked it here so much better and I wanted to stay. I was done with life because it hurt so badly. I was in a mentally and physically abusive relationship and had no means to escape it.  They were threatening to take my newborn child and I couldn't live with that.  I was afraid my family wouldn’t help me get out of that situation because they were also afraid of my husband. 

   My father was with me. His presence was so reassuring and I knew that he had been watching over me, protecting me, and giving me signs/clues about when to get out over the years so that I wouldn’t get hurt. I felt the warm embrace of my grandfather and other loved ones who had passed over. It was more like our energies mingling or combining. I was filled with love and no feelings of guilt for who I was in my earthly life or any of my weaknesses. I was told by an entity that they needed me to go back. My family would suffer too much of they lost me. I “knew” they would help me out of my situation and lead me into another life that would be fitting for me. But, I did not want to go back. I was trying to get across that everyone would be so much better off without me being a burden if I was alive. I kept saying I would come back again in another life and try all over again. The entities said they were so proud of me for what I had withstood, how much I had grown, and how wise and strong I really was in this life. The told me I was to come back and help others and they would show me the way.

  I wasn't happy at the thought of going back and then they showed me a scene. I was outside of my body looking in on my mother who was sitting quietly and crying in the room with me on the ventilator. I could not decipher the words she was quietly saying but I know that she was praying and speaking to passed on family. I could “feel” her pain and how much this would hurt her, and my brothers and sisters. She knew what I had been living through was extremely tough and it’s why I had tried to commit suicide. She blamed my situation, not me. I just couldn’t take it anymore and I couldn’t bare to feel how strongly this was hurting her.  I told the entity that I was okay and would get back in my body now. And, I did. 

  Just then I began coughing because of the tubes and they came into my room to do some checks. I couldn’t really speak and they told me they would take out the tube as soon as they could. This was a horrible experience.   My situation was explained to me and my immediate family all visited and then they were going to go get some rest because they all needed it badly. I was safe from my husband because he was not allowed to visit me there. And, now we would just wait because I needed the transplant as soon as possible to survive.  I was fine. I already knew it. I was happy and I knew what happens after this life that we go someplace safe where we’re not judged, just loved. I hadn’t felt love for so long before I passed and I had needed it so badly. And, now I knew that it’s what we all have to look forward to. 

  I didn’t get a transplant. My test results started coming back within the normal range without medical intervention. The doctors told me this wasn’t even possible. There’s no way it could happen and that it’s probably false results which sometimes occurs just before liver failure in rare cases.   But, within weeks, they sent back to the first hospital. I was only getting one shot per day. Even from the first day I was wanting to eat solid food and was asking to get up and walk and go to the window. I knew I was going to be fine.  The staff at the hospital was so excited. They couldn’t believe I was back and that I looked so healthy already. The last time they saw me my body was extremely swollen from withholding water. My own family told me later that you couldn’t even recognize me. And here I was back with a big smile on my face and in no pain. 

  I got a private room there and when I took my first shower, I bellowed out the song "In The Garden" and I knew I had walked and talked with my father on the other side and at that point In my life I needed him more than ever. It was the most beautiful thing. The words just came to me and I feel like my singing was from out of my body like someone sang through me.  I didn’t have to stay at this hospital long either. Two weeks and I could go home. I went with my family this time. I did not leave with my husband at the time.

  Even to this day, when I get blood work done everything looks great! A few years ago, I asked a doctor, are you sure because I had liver failure in the past and they scared me into thinking that would always be an issue for me. The doctor said, “You are in perfect health. Every single test result is within normal range and your vitals are even better than the normal.”

  Ever since I had my experience, my intuition has been stronger. I am empathic with others and understand what that means.  It doesn’t scare me anymore. I get signs and messages that I had been missing all of those years and I know how to work with them. Electronic devices malfunction around me and even ultrasound machines do not work accurately on me anymore. I  know that my purpose is to just be and do things that make me happy because that’s how I’m healing the planet by resonating my frequency. I paint and write and play music. I’m not afraid of circumstances. I just have some kind of understanding that everything is going to always be okay and I have been able to share that feeling with friends and loved ones. It’s an entire new perspective lacking any type of fear of outcomes. I find beauty in all things around me especially in nature and all animals are drawn to me. I was meant to travel for many years and connect with the many energies and areas of our country.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September/October 2010  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt  Drug or medication overdose       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Liver failure. They put me on a transplant list and said I would not make it unless I got a new liver.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My family deciding my fate.  I saw my mother sitting by my bed while I was unconscious.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Could feel entering that space and everyone in it. All of us are connected and communicating with energy, sound frequencies, and light particles or like shapes  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I agreed to slip back into my body and we were deciding whether I’d go back or not. It was like they were saying, 'please go back for them and others.'  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     All in a flash they all came to me and everything happened at once  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Dull drab environment before  I got there.  Afterwards, there was heightened colors and features. Eeverything is beautiful. I was  noticing it all. Even the simplest things seem amazing and meaningful, brighter but like the light of knowledge  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only heard what was directly around me.  I could hear frequencies and pitches that were like a language.  I could hear long distances away like at the end of the hallway and it sounded like I was right there  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     From darkness to light.  I thought of it as a realm.  I did not get to pass all the way into the  full light  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Dad, grandfather, other family members  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     It’s like all the colors are in everything. The colors were  fluid, constantly changing, and mixing  
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Between here and “there” like a space or zone.  One day out of nowhere, I mentioned 'I think I went through the Arcadian realm' or something like that to check me out and help me decide so I would know it was okay to come back  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort safety bliss LOVE connection  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     All is connected  and bBoth positive and negative are necessary.  Don’t hold it against people what stages in life they are in.  We go through many lifetimes.  Ascension is the goal  Unity and flow  
  
  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.     Yes, just that they were always sending signs to help me be safe over the years  
  
  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     I would be safe once again in life and I would be able to create the life I want.  I would  travel away from home and share my thoughts, ideas with others in many ways  
  
  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   They showed me what it was like to feel my family's pain and that’s why I came back  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I live spirituality in everything I do  

  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths:   I adhere to beliefs from many religions and believe it’s all one faith  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     At the time I believed we just died and it would end.  For some reason I thought that’s what they meant of Heaven.  I read the Bible a lot back then and I thought suicide meant you went on no more.  I hadn’t really considered past lives until then either.  But when this experience happened, I just knew  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am whole and complete and love myself for who I am  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   An entity assigned to me specifically, like a caseworker  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Not specific but they let me know I’ve had many lives - MANY!!!  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Human words can’t explain how we’re all connected but it’s all one  

  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     We are ‘god’; everyone and everything is  god.
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think I’ve described it a lot  Our very presence is making a difference in other’s lives even when we don’t know it or see it  We affect everything, things as small as plants and environment all the way up to towns, cities, etc.   our very being is healing so much more than we know when we live a life we/of love  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Many lessons and many life’s  We’re not just here for our self  We’re here for all  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     They would make me keep coming back for more lifetimes or else I could come back and get it all done in this one- this is my last incarnation but it wouldn’t have been if I didn’t come back this time  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We’re here for them  Not ourselves  Others need us to be ourself even if they don’t see it or talk to us about it  We’re here for them to share a frequency or feelings with earth  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Tests and we can withstand them all  We have before  It’s teaching the all, not just us  Life lessons are blessings (in disguise) blessons and the truly worthy get challenged the most in this realm  Our very presence makes change and tough times don’t last because we get to leave/die  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We’re always loved and only humans judge  It’s part of this school  When we’re not here or being in unconditionally loved and provided for  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Back then I would read the Bible some just searching for answers.  Now, I love spirituality. It’s the most important aspect of my life. It’s so much broader and not defined by a specific religion or just words. It’s everything. Spirituality is evenh  in light reflections,  shadows, or  raindrops. It is in all People and places; in everything, everywhere  
  
  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I’ve cut out people who don’t value me and respect me.  I’m more content in my everyday life no matter what  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s beyond what my mind can comprehend and put into words. It’s more like feelings or energy  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember it more accurately because I’ve gone back and thought it over so many times  But, it’s more like I’ve thought of it to access the feelings so I could feel safe and loved again.  Some days I get teary and I literally say I want to go back home because it felt like home. Nowhere on this planet can compare  
  
  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can medium at times. I have a slider affect electronic equipment. I can picture something related to alchemy and then I get it.  I can heal myself, based on some current health stuff (healed an autoimmune condition and allergies). I often know the future and have predicted many things for my friends, and just know things about people without talking to them. Then they verify it. While traveling I met some others randomly and we know each other without knowing each other. It's like  we recognize our frequency or something  
  
  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My family was saying good bye to me at the hospital because they didn’t think I’d get a liver to transplant.  I don’t need One because I miraculously healed.  I must need to be here on earth for some reason and w  Wasn’t allowed to die ye.  My singing in the shower was something amazing many weeks later. It was like angels were singing with me and they were glad I came back to the hospital in my town. They had been there with me when I was there before they life flighted me to the specialist hospital  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    2 years  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard stories about people seeing the light and walking through a tunnel but nothing more specific than that they came back and told they went to Heaven  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I discussed it a little with the nurses while there and they said it was truly amazing  Sometimes I feel like some of them were like earth angels  The doctors and everyone verified I miraculously healed  But I didn’t tell them anything I “knew”  It was years before I told a close friend the whole story  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Life has shown me repeatedly how very real it was  I’m a whole new person now with a much healthier life perspective  And I’m not scared of what’s coming after this life  I see beauty everywhere in everything  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I’m grateful to know I’m loved.  And more thankful for the little things now  
  
  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I can’t think of any.  The questionnaire seems very thorough         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melinda_c_nde.html