{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melinda_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Melinda B NDE 9625","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melinda B NDE 9625  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melinda B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5187 Melinda B NDE 9625  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I did not know who I was.  I did not know my name, although  I knew that I was an adult female.  I didn't know that I was married or if I had kids.  I was in spirit form.  I visually looked like myself, but was translucent and could go through objects.  I was outside of the planet earth in space and outside of time.  An instant was forever and forever was an instant.  I had no physical sensations.  I had no physical pain.  I was intensely aware that I HAD to get back into time.  I had a need was overpowering, desperate, and distressing.  Nothing existed except this need.  I had no other thoughts, experiences, or needs.  I had to get back into time, which also meant back to planet Earth and back into my body.  Otherwise, I would be like this forever and that was very bad. I willed my body to float/fly from space back into Earth.  I saw myself getting closer to earth.  I had not yet reached Earth and then the experience stopped.  I no longer had awareness.  I had been put on heavy sedation for the intubation.  I woke later and remembered the near death experience but I have no memory for 9 hours prior to the near death experience and 10 hours afterwards.  
  
  The setting of the experience was that earlier that day when I had surgery in my foot.  At 3 pm, I was aware enough to understand my surgeon telling me the surgery went well and the local pain pump would be used to help control my pain.  I have no memory of anything else other than the near death experience, until 10 am the next day.  Around 12 pm, I had a medically unexplained reaction to the general anesthetic in the local pain pump.  It appears to have gone throughout my body.  I had a grand mal seizure, went into respiratory and cardiac arrest.  The defibrillator was used and I was intubated.  Medication was administered to stop the reaction.  That worked.  I was in intensive care unit with intubation until about 7 am.  This changed my life in that I had frequent thoughts of suicide prior to this experience and have had no thoughts of suicide since.  I no longer wish for death to end my chronic physical pain issues.  Death will come soon enough and I will wait.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09/06/2021  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related  Drug or medication overdose. While under general anesthesia. CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was having a medically unexplained reaction to general anesthesia that had been placed into a local pain pump.  I had a grand mal seizure, respiratory and cardiac failure. A defibrillator was used to regain stable heart rate and I was intubated.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was not different.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Time did not exist.  The experience seemed very uniform.  I was at the same awareness for the entire thing.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     There was no time.  I was outside of time.  An instant was forever and forever was an instant.  I had no way of telling how long I was there or how long I would be there.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seemed the same.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything at all.  There was nothing to hear.  No one was talking.  I was by myself.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw darkness of space and I saw earth.  The lighting seemed like what I've seen in documentaries about space.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was desperate and upset.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I believe there are spirits but we are not able to understand them.  I believe our souls are imortal but we are unable to understand what comes before or after this life.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I believe there are spirits but we are not able to understand them.  I believe our souls are immortal but we are unable to understand what comes before or after this life.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Prior to this, I believed I would go on to the next life regardless of circumstances of my life and death.  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to believe we go onto our next life no matter what.  Now, I think we may need to complete the reason we are here or we might get stuck in a bad state.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just that I needed to complete why I am alive before I can move on to my next life.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I understood that if I died before I was meant to, I would be stuck in this type of state. I believed this meant that in order to move forward in the intended afterlife. I have to complete the life I was supposed to complete.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was aware that if I died, I would remain in this unpleasant state forever.  This would be my afterlife.  I had no information about any other people's afterlife or what my afterlife would be under a different situation.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Prior to this experience I often fantasized about dying as a way to put an end to my chronic physical pain. I have not since.  Now, I'd rather wait to die until I am meant to.  Now I think I might get stuck in a bad state if I don't complete my intended life.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  There is no way to measure the accuracy of this.  I have no memory of what was actually happening. I could not hear or see what was going on around me.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being stuck in a timeless state was very unpleasant.  It's important to me that does not become my afterlife.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told others right away.  I don't know if they were influenced. They found it fascinating and bizarre.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew that they are fairly common and most people have pleasant experiences involving light and choice of whether to live.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      The experience is probably from unusual and misunderstood brain activity.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      The experience was probably from unusual brain activity caused from lack of oxygen  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None come to mind         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melinda_b_nde.html