{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5140","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n11_dec_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N11 December 1884","mylang":"de"}
Xo. XL] [DBCEMBEB, 1884.
JOURNAL
0],' THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS.
PAGE PAGE
New KemlJera aDd Aaaoclatea.. • ,. 1117 ISupplementary Library OataIogue" ... 2J.!
(}.oneral Keeting ... ... ... ... .., ... 198 Spec\meDll of the CIaIaIIlcatton of C-
Beport on the Wor]aop DIsturbances ... 199 for" PhaDtuma of the Llnng" ,. 21S
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
ME:&IBERS.
CLOSE, CHARLES ARTHUR, M.A., B.C.L.,30, St. James'Square, Lon-
don, S.W.
KEIGHTLEY, BERTRAM, B.A., 20, Stanley Gardens, London, W.
LEONARD, ARTHUR G" M.A., 44, Highbury Hill, London, N.
MARSHALL, MRS. EDGAR, 3, Rupert Road, Bedford Park, Chiswick.
ASSOCIATES.
BARKER, MISS ALICE R, Albrighton Hall, Wolverhampton.
CLEMENS, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
COLTHURST, LADY, 47, Hill Street, Berkeley Square, London, W.
DAVIS, THOMAS HENRY, The Western and Brazilian Telegraph Company,
Caixa, 453, Rio Janeiro, Brazil.
FLETCHER, REV. W. ROBY, M.A., Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Adelaide, Australia.
HACKETT, J'A1IES F., B.A., 71, King William Street, Adelaide, Australia.
HAVERS, MISS, 76, "Tl'stLourne Park Road, Bayswater, London, W.
JENNINGS, MRS., Driffield, Yorkshire.
SAMPSON, MRS. DUDLEY, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
ScHILLER, F. C. S., Halliol College, Oxford.
SMITH, MRS. J. GRANT, 25, Leinster Gardens, Hyde, Park, London, "-.
T.WNTON, MRS. R II., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
198 Journal qf Societ,ll for Psychical Re.,eal'c/,. [Dec., 1884.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at Queen Anne's Mansions, on Friday,
November 28th, at 4.30 p.m., open to Members and Associates only.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read the conclusion of the First. Report of the
Committee on Phenomena attested by.members of the Theosophical
Society. This part of the Report dealt mainly with the alleged
apparitions of the Mahatmas, and included also a Note on the Coulomb
letters, and a Note by Mr. Myers on the TheoSophical theory of the
Akas or Astral Light, of " projections of the double," &c.
A discussion followed, in which ~Ir. Mohini, Mr. St. George Lane
Fox, Dr. Wyld, and Mr. Sinnett took part. It is hoped that the
Report (about 130 pp. including Appendices) will be in the hands of
Members almost immediately. Associates are entitled to receive a cop-y
of it on remitting 2s. 6d. to the Assistant-Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard.
The Report will not be published.
Mr. R. Hodgson, B.A., of St. John's College, Cambridge, is expected
to have reached Madras about December 10th, and it is hoped that
letters from him may be included in a Second Report of the Com-
mittee, which will be circulated in the same semi-private manner.
COUNCIL :MEETING.
At a Council Meeting held on the 28th of November, the following
Members were present :-Messrs. Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey, F_
W. H. Myers, and F. Podmore. Mr. C. C. Massey was voted to
the chair.
After the Minutes of the previous Meeting had been read, four new
Members and 12 new Associates were elected, whose names and addresses
appear on another page.
It was agreed that the request of Mr Charles Downing, an Associate,
to become a Member of the Society be assented to.
Information was received of the death, which took place some time
since, of Miss M. Leighton, an Associate of the Society.
A donation to the Society of £20 was announced by the Treasurer
from an anonymous contributor.
•
Digitized by Google
'Dec., 1l'SS-l] Journal qf Society for P8!.,ckical Re8earcle. 199
REPORT ON THE WORKSOP DISTURBANCES.
By F. PODMORE, :M.A.
At the beginning of March, 1883, the RetfO'rd and GainsbO'rouU1t
Ti'meB and other local papers gave accounts of some remarkable distur-
bances which had occurred in the first two or three days of the month,
:at the house of a. small horsedealer in Worksop, named Joe White.
One or two members of the Society entered into communication with
<the principal persons named in the newspaper reports, and with 0.
'friend in the neighbourhood, who very kindly took some
<trouble in inquiring into the matter for the Society. But it soon
llecame obvious that as nearly all the witnesses of the occurrences re-
lated were of the. humbler class, and unable, therefore, to write a con-
nected account of what had happened, the best way to arrive at the
truth of the matter was for one of us to go in person to make inquiries.
Accordingly, at the request of the Haunted House Committee, I went
odown to Worksop on the a.fternoon of Saturday, the 7th April, with
'the iiltention of inspecting the actual scene of the occurrences, and of
personally interrogating the principal witnesses; in order, if possible,
"to arrive at some rational explanation of the business. I spent the
:saturday evening and the whole of the following day in my inquiries,
and have, I think, obtained as intelligible and trustworthy a history of
the matter as the lapse of time, the nature of the phenomena them-
:selves, and the character of the witnesses will permit.
I derived my information from seven principal eye-witnessps of the
disturbances, whom I interrogated, with the single exception of White
himself, 8eparately. I wrote out the statement of each witnpss in full
immediately after the interview; and the three most important witnesses,
Higgs, Currass, and White, subsequently read through my notes and
signed them. The depositions of these three persons are printed in full
below. My time was too short to allow a second interview with the four
other principal witnesses, and I was unable, therefore, to obtain their
signature to the depositions; but I have incorporated the statements of
all the principal witnesses in my report.
Besides th0 seven chiefly concerned, I questioned, in presence of
White and his wife, three or four other witnesses of the disturbances,
viz., White's· brother Tom, a bright looking lad of 18 qr 20 ;
Solomon Wass and his wife, npxt door neighbours of the Whites, the
former an ordinary North countryman of the lowe~ class, the latter a.
Digitized by Google
o
cg;
N·
&
~
CJ
o
~
-
rv
l::
~
I:IS'
~~
'"
~;:!.
1:1'<
ij
tr~'
'<!t
i~
O'~
~!iI
",13
"'"
el'
~8.
.~
S;
..
;.
N
~
-=
l
]
'"
~
:;0
"'-::::
~~
o~
5g'
i;.
'J
!I
'i
i
rio
N N
Yard, with piggerieH, .te., on the sides marked N and O.
K
i'
~ I 0
:
KITCHBN. ,---.
lit
------
-,
0
....
-
--.-
lit
- - - - (lItI.
\.
.--..
:H
I.........~....... I F
I
Front room, UBed as a bedroom; the front door
beitt locked, and having ~ar ra9ted over it, so
t ~t ~t 99Ul4 INt be open wit out ctetecpoll·
I
i
,
D
0:
0:
.'
-----
E
A. Outer door.
B Aeask.
o Thebin.
D }'ireplace.
E Clipboard.
F Squab sufa.
G Door into inner
room.
H Door into "pantry'
below stairs.
I Chest of drawers.
J Door onto landing
K at foot of stairs.
L Table.
lit Chllirs.
=-
i~
0
;~
r:.
2-
-
0
~.
~
~ :::
~ ~
(!) ....
G-
.a
~
~
=!
==
;:;0'
~
t::: ~
i
";
)
~
(I)
;:::..
Go 2'
Cll ....
i r
i ~
:::-
"t:l
-
~
IB
~
l~
f !
•
Dec., 188-1.] Journal of &cietulor Psychical Re8earch. 201
,lea.saut looking, intelligent woman; and George Ford (Buck Ford), a
man of aoout 28. From these I obtained general confirmation of the
,'arious incidents, as described by White, Higgs, &c., at which they had
themselves been present; but time did not permit of much cross-
questioning" nor of taking down their evidence in full.
White's house has been built, according to his own statement, about
«!even years. He has only resided in it three years. J was unable to
.discover anything about the former occupants. The house stands at the
end of a. piece of waste land, called the New Building Ground, with
another house or cottage attached; the nearest separate building
ilgeing a public-house, about 100 yards off. With that exception there
are no other buildings within about 200 yards.
There is no entrance to the house by the front, the front door being
locked, anel the joints secured with paper from the inside. Entrance is
e\ltaineci hy a covered pa.ssage, open at either end, which separates the
tWI!I AcaUseS, and gives access immediately to a yard, surrounded on one
&i.e ~y high palings, and on the other three by piggeries, stables, and
the two houses. The plan of the ground.floor of White's house is
apparent from the accompanying sketch. The kitchen is about 15ft.
:square. The upper floor is divided into two rooms, the back one,
corresponding to the kitchen, being used as a bedroom for Tom and the
c1tildren; the front one as a store-house for bacon, horse-furniture, and
various odds and ends. There is also a garret above this, into which I
did not enter, it being at the time full of bacon in salt. The whole
ilouse, not excepting the bedrooms, is hung with bacon, the very stair-
tCaSe being lined with it, so that I had to draw my coat close to me in
~ing up. A large part of the bacon, as I was told by White, had gone
bad during the period of the disturbances.
The front or inner room on the ground-floor was an ordinary room,
like all the rest of the house, half filled with bacon, and containing,
~esides bedroom fnrniture, a large beer-barrel on trestles; everything in
it filthily dirty.
I looked all ovt:r the house in daylight, but could discern no holes in
the walls, ceilings, nor any trace of the extensive a.nd elaborate
machinery, which would have been required to produce the movements
by ordinary mechanical means.
The history of the disturbances, as gathered from the various
witnesses whom I interrogated, appears to be briefly as follows:-
Xothing remarkable had been seen or heard in the houso until about
Digitized by Google
~02 Journal of Societ,1J101' P8!1c1ti.cal Re8earch. fDec.. lS8~
the 20th or 21st February, 1883, when, as Mrs. White was a.lone with
two of the children in the kitchen one evening, washing up the tea-things
at the table; the table tilted up at a considerable angle; the candle was
upset, and the washtub only saved by Mrs. W. holding it. She posi-
tively assured me that she exerted no pressure whatever upon the table,.
and the whole incident struck her as very extraordinary. Her husband
made light of it at the time.
On Monday, February 26th, White was absent from home until the
Wednesday afternoon. On the Monday his wife allowed a girl, _Eliza.
Rose,the child of a~ imbecile mother,and herself regarded as half-witted,
to come into the house and share her bed at night. White returned.
on Wednesday night, but left on the following morning until Friday
afternoon. During that one night the girl slept on the squab. On
Thursday night, 1st March, at about 11 p.m., Tom White went up to.
bed-the children having gone up some hours before. At about 11.30,
Mrs..White and Eliza Rose being then alone in the kitchen, various.
things, such as' a corkscrew, clothes pegs,a salt cellar, &c., which. had.
been in the kitchen only a few minutes before, came tumbling-
step by step down the kitchen stairs. Tom positively and solemnly
denied having thrown the articles, and the mystery was inclJeaseli;
when, at least 20 minutes after he had gone upstairs, no one·
having left the room in the interval, some hot coals were thrown,
down.
On the following night, the 2nd March, at about the same hour -
• White, Mrs. White, and Rose being in the kitchen-a noise was heard:
as of some one coming down the passage between the two houses,. and,
stopping just outside the outer door. White told Rose to open the·
door, but she was too frightened to do so. Then they heard a surcingle
and immediately afterwards some pieces of carpet thrown down the
stairs. Then followed some knives and forks and other things. The·
girl picked them up; but they followed still faster. "'rute then left
the room to go up to Tom. During his absence one of the ornaments.
flew off the mantelpiece into the corner of the room near the door.
Nothing was seen by the two women; but they heard it fall, and fouad
it there. Their screams summoned White down; as he entered the.
room his candle went out, and something struck him on the forehead.
The girl picked up the candle-which appears to have left the candle-
stick, and two new ones which had not been in the house previously-
£::-om the ground ; and as soon as a candle was lit, a little china woman.
Digitized by Google
Dee., 188-1.] Journal of Societ!ffor P8ycllicl,1 Re8earch. 203
left the mantelpiece, and fell into the corner, where it was. seen by
White. As s.oon as it was replaced it flew. across the room again, and
was broken. Other things followed, and the women being very
frightened, and White thinking that the disturbances presaged the
death of his child, who was very ill with an abscess in the back, sent
Tom (who was afraid to go alone) with Ford to fetch the doctor. Mrs.
White meanwhile took one of the children next door. Rose approached
the inner room to fetch anoth~r, when things immediately began to flr
about and smash themselves in that room. After this all appear to
have been absent from the house for a short time. White then returned,
with. Higgs, a policeman, and, whilst they were alone in the kitchen,
standing near the door, a glass jar flew out of the cupboard into the
yard; a tumbler also fell from the chest of drawers in the kitchen,
when only Higgs was near it. Both then went into the inner room,
and found the chest of drawers there turned up on end and smashed.
On their retu~they found Rose, Wass, and Tom White in the kitchen
[1 and Mrs. Wass], and all saw a cream jug" which Rose had just placed
on the bin, fly four feet up in the air and smash on the floor. Dr.
Lloyd and Mrs. White then entered, and in the presence of aU these
witnesses, a basin was seen to rise slowly from the bin-no person
being near it except Dr. Lloyd and Hig~s. It touched the ceiling, and
then fell suddenly to the floor, and was smashl.'d. This was at 12 p.m.
All then left except Tom White and his brother. The disturbances
continued until about 2. a.m., when all grew quiet, and the Whites
slept. At about 8 a.m., on Saturday, the 3rd, the disturbances began
again.
White left the kitchen to attend to some pigs; and, in his absence,..
Mrs. White and Rose were left alone in the kitchen.. A nearly empty
port wine bottle leaped up from the table about four feet into the air, and
fell into a bucket of milk, standing on the table, from which Mrs. White
was filling some jugs, &c.
Then Currass appears to have been attracted to the scene. He-
entered with White, young Wass, and others, and viewed the inner
room. They had but jU'.lt returned to the kitchen, leaving the inner
room empty, and the door of communication open,. when the American
clock, which hung over the bed, was heard to strike. (It had not done
so for 18 months previously.) A crash. was then hea.rd,. and Currass .
who was nearest the door, looked in, and found that the.. clock. had
fallen over the hed~about four feet 1)road-and was lying on the
Digitized by Google
204 Journal o/Society/O,. PS!Jckical Reseal·ch. [Dec., 1884.
-----------------
ftoor.* Shortly a.fterwards--no one being near it-a china dog flew off
the mantelpiece, and smashed itself in the. corner near the door.
CUlT&88 and some others then left.
Some plates, a cream-jug, and other things, then flew up in the air.
and smashed themselves in view of all who were in the kitchen-Rose,
the Whites, and Mrs. Wass.
White then lay down on the sofa; but disturbances continued
during his siesta. In particular, some pictures on the wall next the
pantry began to move, but were taken down at once by his brother. At
a.bout 2 p.m. a Salvation Army woman came in, and talked to White.
Rose only was with them in the kitchen. A candlestick flew from the
bin, and fell behind the Salvation Army woman, as Rhe stood near the
pantry door. She left the room in terror
Other things then followed at intervals. A full medicine bottle fell
without breaking. An empty medicine bottle and a lamp-glass fell and
broke themselves. It was then about 4 p.m., and White could stand
it no longer. He told the girl she must go; she did in fact leave
before 5 p.m. After her departure nothing whatever of an abnormal
character took place, and the house has remained undisturbed up to the
present time.
With regard to the positions of the persons present, in relation to
the objects mOY'ed, it may bestated generally that there was no possi-
bility in most cases of the objects having been thrown by hand. It
.will be seen, on reference to the deposition'i of the witnesses which are
appended, that the objects were frequently moved in' a remote corner
of the room, or even in an adjoining room. Moreover, the character of
the movements, in many cases, was such as to preclude the possibility of
the objects having been thrown.
Of course the obvious explanation of these occurrences is trickery
on the part of some of the persons present. In regard to this, it seems
to me a matter of very little significance that most. of the educated
* It will be noted that there is a diecrepancy between White's and Curraas'
versionof this incident. Mrs.White, however, confirmed her husband's accouilt; and
I have little doubt tbat the statement in tbe text is 8ubstantially &Ccumte.
Curraas is more likely than Wbite to have been mistaken in his reoollection of
White's position at the time; and Curraas' account of his own position does not
. differ greatly from that given by White. The material point, and one on wbich
both witnesses are agreed, is that no one ._ tbe clock fall. Curraas' written
statement is not clear on this point, but be told me 1Iiv/i. fJoctJ that his attention
was drawn to what had taken place byhearing thecrash. He only then turned
round and saw the clock.1ying on the floor.-F. P.
Digitized by Google
Dec;, 1884.J Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. 205
people in Worksop believe White himself to have caused the distur-
banoe. For most educated persons, as we know, would not be ready to
admit any other than a mechanioal explanation, and if such an explana-
tion be adopted, White, the owner of the house, a man of considerable
intelligence, whose record was not entirely olean, and who was himself
present on the occasion of nearly all the disturbances, must obviously be
the agent. But whilst believing White to be at the bottom of the
matter, none of the persons with whom Ioonversed were prepared with
any explanation of his modus operandi. That he should have thrown
the things was universally admitted to be impossible. And beyond
thia, I oould discover little more than an unquestioning faith in the
omnipotence of eleotricity. No one professed to ~ve any idea. of what
mechanical means could have been employed, or how they could
have been ada.pted to the end in view. Still less did anyone pretend to
have disoovered any indications in the house itself of any machinery
having been used. Moreover,there was a total absence of any apparent
motive on Whi~e's part, supposing him to have been capable of effecting
the movements himself. Whilst he was unquestionably a considerable
loser-to the extent of nearly £9 as estimated by himself, though this
estimate is probably exaggerated-by the articles broken, he appears to
have reaped no corresponding advantage. The one motive which I heard
suggested-if we disregard a report in one newspaper, subsequently con-
tradicted in another, to the effeot that White was anxious to buy the
house, and to buy it oheap-was that he produced the disturbances in
fulfilment of a sporting bet. But I saw no reason to regard this
explanation as anything but a scholium evolved by some ingenious
commentator from the facts themselves.
Again, had White himself been the principal agent in the matter,
it is clear that he must have had at least two confederates, for he was
not himself present during the disturbanoes on the Thursday night-
which might, indeed, have been caused by his brother Tom-nor was
either he or his brother present during some of the occurrences on the
following day. Moreover, these confederates must not only have been
extremely skilful, but they must have been capable of more than ordi-
nary reticence and self-control. For it is remarkable that, with the
single exception of the statements made by the girl Rose, no one pro-
fessed to have heard even a hint from White himself, from his brother,
or from any other, of any trickery in the matter.
Moreover, it is hard to conceive by what mechanical appliance-\
Digitized by Google
206 Jourllal of Society lor P'1lcAical Reseal·cll. [Deo•• l.8Sl.
under the circumstances described, the movements could ha.ve been
effected. The clock, for instance,-a heavy American one-was thrust
out from the wall in a horizontal direction, so as a.pparently to clear a
4ft. Mdstead which lay immediately beneath it, and the nail from which
it depended remained in Bitn on the wall. The objects thrown about
in the kitchen moved generally, but by no means always, in the direction
of the outer door. And it is noticeable that, in most cases, they do not
appear to have been thrown, but in some manner borne or wafted across
the room; for, though they fell on a stone floor 15ft. or 16ft. distant,
they were often unbroken, and were rarely shivered. And it is
impossible to reconcile the account given of the movement of some other
objects, variously described as "jerky," " twirling," and "turning over
and over," with the supposition that the objects depended on any fixed
support, or were in any way suspended.
Lastly, to suppose that these various objects were all moved by
mechanical contrivances argues incredible stupidity, amounting almost
to imbecility,on the part of all the persons present who werenotintheplot.
That the movement of the arms necessaryto set the machinery in motion
should have passed unobserved on each and every occasion by all the
witnesses, is almost impossible. Not only so, but Currass, Higgs, and
Dr. Lloyd, all independent observers, assured me that they examined
some of the objects which had been moved, immediately after the
occurrence, with the express intention of discovering, if possible.
any clue· to an explanation of the matter, but entirely failed to do so.
These men were not over-credulous; they certainly were not wanting
in intelligence; and they were not, any of them, prepossessed in favour
of· White. .But they each admitted that they could discover no possible
explana,tion of the disturbances, and were fairly bewildered by the whole
matter.
Aprillltk. 1883:
STATEMENT OF JOE WHITE. A fair witness. I think that he always in-
tended to speak the truth, but that occasionally his memory proved
treacherous. In all important points, however, he was corroborated
by his wife (an excellent witness), Higgs, and CUrraBs.-F. P.
I returned home about 7 on the Friday night (March 12th). I
had been absent from home on Monday and Tuesday nights: and it was
during my absence that my wife took in the girl Rose, who shared her
bed in the front inner room. I slept at home on 'Vednesday, and the
girl then slept on the squab in the kitchen. I left again on Thursday
wonting, and returned as mentioned on the Friday.
Wl).en. told by my wife and Tom what had happened on Thursday
Digitized by Google
Dile., 1884.) Joltl'11al Q/ SocietuJOI' P8ychical Re8earch. 207
night I said some one must have been tricking, and didn't think much
more about it. But I chaffed the lass (Rose) a good deal, for she was
much frightened. About 11.30 on Friday evening, when my wife, the
girl, and I were alone in the kitchen,just going up to bed, I heard a noise
as if some one had come down the passage between the two houses,
and were standing just outside our door. They didn't knock; but I said
to Rose, " Go and see who's there." But she was frightened and didn't
go. Then presently, a lot of things came rattling down the stairs. I
don't know what came first: but a lot of things came-a surcingle,
bits of carpet, knives and forks, a corkscrew, &c. The girl went to pick
them up, and put them on the table, and just as fast as she put them on
more things came down. Then my wife said t.() me, "The salt cella.r came
down last night, but you won't have it down to-night, for here it is on
the table." She was using it at the time for saltil'lg Tom's dinner for
next day. She had hardly said this,when the salt-cellar flew off from the
table, and into the corner near the outer door. Rose was in that corner,
and not near the table: my wife was at the table but certainly didn't
touch the cella.r. I saw the thing go, though I couldn't believe my eyes.
My wife didn't see it go, but we both saw it as it struck the wall in the
corner. All the salt was spilled out of it. I fairly couldn't believe my
own eyes; but I couldn't help thinking it must be Tom. So I went up-
stairs to him, and told him to leave off. "Thou'lt frighten our Liz to
death." He said, "It's not me, Joe. I'll take my oath it isn't.. I've never
thrown nowt down." Whilst I was still talking to him, I heard a crash
downstairs; and the women screamed; and my wife cried, "Come down,
Joe." As I wag just coming into the room the candle which I held in my
hand went out-I don't know how at all--and we were left in darkness,
except for the firelight. Then something hit me on the forehead, and I
cried out, " Who threw that 1" Then there was a crash in the corner.
I found out when we had a light again, that the salt cellar had fallen
again into the corner, and broken itself. Then I found out that the
candle was not in the candlestick, and asked where it was. I told
the girl to look for it, and then she felt among the things at the bottom
of the stairs and picked up t/,ree candles, two of them quite new. We
had only had' two candles in the house [Mrs. White expressly confirmed
this.-F.P.] which had been bought justbefore, and both had been partly
burnt. I lit the old ones and left the new ones on the table; but they
disappeared afterwards, and I have never seen them since.
When the candle was lit again, I saw the little china woman jump
off from the mantelpiece, and go into the same corner. It fell on its
side, and then righted itself, and stood upright, unbroken. I distinctly
saw it go through the air; it passed near me as I stood about the
middle of the room. None of us were near the mantelpiece. Ipicked
it up, and presently it fell into the corner again, and broke itself.
Digitized by Google
208 Joul'IJal qf Society fol' PS!lcllical Research. [Dec.,l8SI.
Then the tea-caddy and the candlestick, all from the mantelpiece,
followed. Then I went out and found George Ford (" Buck" Ford),
and asked him to fetch Dr. Lloyd for the child-for they had told me
that all this disturbance meant the death of the child, who was very ill
with an abscess in its back.
Then I got my wife to take the little lad out, and lo.yhim next door,
he lying on the sqqa.h in the kitchen at the time. [Mrs. W. denied this,
and sa.id he was in the inner room.-F. P.] Rose went with her,
and they took all the children with them. Before going, Rose had to
go into the inner room, and then things began to fly about there and
make a disturbance. All had been quiet there before.
I went after the others into the next house and stayed there some
little time.. When I came back, I found the Police-constable Higgs in
the kitchen. He and I went alone there. (Rose all this time was next
door.) We heard a crash in the inner room, and we went in-Solomon
Wass and Tom, who had just entered·with us, and Higgs withhis lantern,
and we found the chest of drawers turned up on end, and the lustres
and looking-gla.ss, and everything else that had been on it, in pieces on
the floor. Then we came back into the kitchen, and we BIloW the
cupboard door open, and a big glass jar flew out, and flew into the yard
and broke itself. Also some things flew off the bin at the side of the
door, from the end near the fire; and they pitched in the corner, and
then went out in the yard. Things often pitched on the floor by the
door first,and then got up again and flew out into the yard.
Then Dr. Lloyd came in with my wife,and Higgsshowed him what had
happened in the inner room. Then when we had got into the kitchen
again, and were all standing near the door of the inner room-Higgs,
my wife,and Tom, and Wass,and Lloyd-who was about six feet from the
bin, and the nearest to it of our party-we all BIloW a hasin which was
lying on the bin near the door, get up two or three times in the air,rising
slowly a few inches or perhaps a foot, and then falling plump. [Mrs. W.
corroborated this, and so did Mr. Wass,the next-door neighbour,who was
also present.-F.P.] Then it got up higher, and went slowly, wobbling as
it went, up to the ceiling, and when it reached the ceiling, it fell down all
at once, and broke itself.* Dr. Lloy:! then looked in the bin, BIIoying the
devil must be in the house, and then left. All the others shortly after-
wards left, Mrs. W., Rose and the children stopping in the next house
Tom and I BIIot in the chair on either side of the fire until the next morn-
ing at 8 a.m. Things kept on moving every now and then until about
2 a.m., and then wa~ all quiet, and we got to sleep a bit. At about
8 a.m. I had to go out to see after a pig, which had been pigging, and
• During this aoene the room was lig~ted by one candle, Higp'llantem, and
• bluing fire i 10 that the light was pretty good.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 18U.] Jotwnalof Societ!/ for Ps!/ckical Reseal'cl" 209
then things began again; and a lot of folks came in to see about it.
Currass came in, and I went with him into the inner room and showed
him the chest of drawers, he and I alone; we came out leaving the door
open-I am quite slIre it was open-and I was sitting near the fire, and
Currass was just inside the kitchen, not far from the open door, when
Wass's little lad, who was sitting at the table, said, "There's the clock
striking," meaning the big clock which hung over our bed. I couldn't
hear it, and I said it was a lie. Just then we heard a crash, and I
asked what it was, and Currass looked round, and said it was the Ameri-
can clock had fallen right across the bed, and lay on the floor at the foot,
with its bottom knocked out. Then I took it into the yard. I don't
think-indeed, I a.m sure that Coulter was not here when all. this
ha.ppened. The other clock fell and was broken, but whether before or
after I cannot rememller; and he may have seen that. I don't remem-
ber where the girl Rose was when the American clock fell. She may
have been in the kitchen, but she certainly wasn't in the inner room;
no one was in that room, I am sure. I don't remember saying just at
that time, though I often did say, that wherever she went the things
smashed.
After that, Currass and I and one or two ~thers were standing near
to the outer door talking, when the china dogs, 01' one of them, flew
oft' the mantelpiece and smashed; and lot of things kept on flying into
the corner and smashing. I saw one of the dogs leave the mantelpiece
and go through the air. I don't remember exactly when Coulter came;
he may have been here when the china dog was smashed, but I don't
remember that he was. Then a cream jug fell oft'the ts,ble; it had done
so four or five times without smashing. At last I filled it with milk,
and had placed it on the bin, when it suddenly fell oft' and smashed, and
the milk was all spilt.
Then I was tired, and lay down on the squab; but things kept
moving. I was told some pictures on the wall began to move, but 1
didn't see them. At about 2 p.m., a Salvation Army woman came in
and was talking to me as I lay on the squab; she stood near the inner
door; Rose was near the outer door having brought in some carpet.
There were two candlesticks on the bin, at the end near the fireplace.
Suddeniy something dropped behind the Salvation Army woman. No
one saw it going through the air; but we turned round and found that
it was one of the brass candlesticks., It waS half balanced on the small
end where the candle goes, and was wobbling about on the end. Then
the Salvation woman said, "I must go;" and she went.
Then a little after, when Rose was going to lay down the carpet, and
no one else in the room, a medicine bottle, full, fell from the bin on to
roll of carpet, about three or four yards oft', and was broken. A lamp-
glass had fallen several times without breaking; but at last that fell
Digitized by Google
2io journal of Society lor Psgchical Re3NlI'clt. [Dec., 1884.
and broke. Then an empty bottle flew off from the mantelpiece.
That was one of the last things that happened. Well then, I couldn't
stand it any longer. Wherever the lass seemed to go, things seemed to fly
a.bout. So I said to her, "You'll have to go." She began toroa.r. But
my wife gave her some tea, and she went. That was between 4 and
5 p.m., very soon after the last disturbance. Nothing happened after
she left. We sat up in the kitchen that evening, a lot of us, as the
newspapers tell ; but nothing happened at a.ll.
I have been in the house three years. I think the house had been
built four or five years before that. Nothing of the kind had ever
happened in it before, as far as I lrnow, except that once I thought I
heard some one moving in the yard, and fancied it might be some one
after the fowls; but there was no one there; and there was that strange
tilting of the table when my wife was washing up the things about a
week before.
The Wasses and the Willisezl [Mrs. Willis is Wass's sister] had
lived together in the next house; but since all these disturbances, the
Willises have left the house; but Mr. and lIn. Wass are still there.
(Signed) JOSBPH WHITB.
New Building Ground, Worksop.
April 8th, 1884.
STATEMENT OF POLICE CONSTABLE HIGGS, a man of good intelligence,
and believed to be entirely honest. Fully alive, as becomes his
official position, to White's indifferent reputation, but unable to
account for what he saw.-F. P.
On the night of Friday, March 2nd, I heard of the disturbances at
Joe White's house from his young brother, Tom. I went round to the
house at 11.55 p.m., as near as I can judge, and found Joe White in the
kitchenof his house. Therewasonecandlelightedintheroom, andagoodfire
burning, so that one could see things pretty clearly. The cupboard doors
were open, and White went and shut them, and then came and stood
against the chest of drawers. I stood near the outer door. Noone else
was in the room at the time. White had hardly shut the cupboard
doors when they flew open, and a large glass jar came out past me, and
pitched in the yard outside, smashing itself. I didn't see the jar leave
the cupboard, or fly through the air ; it went too quick. But I am
quite sure that it wasn't thrown by White or anyone else. White
couldn't have done it without my seeing him. The jar couldn't go in a
straight line from the cupboard out of the door; but it certainly did go.
Then White &.eked me to come and see the things which had
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1884.] .Journal oj Society for Psycln'oal Reseal'clt. 211
been smashed in the inner room. He led the way and I followed. As I
passed the chest of drawers in the kitchen I noticed a tumbler standing
on it. Just after I passed I hea~d a crash, and looking round, I saw
that the tumbler had fallen on the ground in the direction of the fire-
place, and was broken. I don't know how it happened. There ~as no
one else in the room.
I went into the inner room, and saw the bits of pots and things au
the floor, aud then I came back with White into the kitchen. The girl
Rose had come into the kitchen during our absence. She was standing
with herback against the bin near the fire. There was a cup standingonthe
bin, rather nearer the door. She said to me, "Cup'll go soon; it has
been down three times already." She then pushed it a little farther on
the bin, and turned round and~stood talking to me by the fire. She had
hardly done so,when the cup jumped up suddenly about four or five feet
into the air, and then fell on the floor and smashed itself. White was
sitting on the other side of the fire.
Then Mrs. White came in with Dr. Lloyd; also Tom White and
Solomon Wass. After they had been in two or three minutes, some-
thing else happened. Tom White and Wass were standing with their
backs to the fire, just in front of it. Eliza Rose and Dr. Lloyd were
neSt' them, with their backs turned towards the bin, the Doctor nearer
to the door. I stood by the drawers, and Mrs. White was by me near
the inner door. Then suddenly a basin, which stood on the end of the
bin near the door, got up into the air, turning over and over as it went.
Itwent up not very quickly,not asquickly as if it had been thrown. When
it reached the ceiling it fell plump and smashed. I called Dr. Lloyd's
attention to it, and we all saw it. Noone was near it, and I don't know
how it happened. I stayed about ten minutes more, but sawnothing else·
I don't know what to make of it all. I don't think White or the girl
could possibly have done the things which I saw.
(Signed) WILLIAM HIGGS, G.E. 30.
April 10th, 1883.
STATEMENT OF ARTHUR CURRASS,' coal-miner; . a Methodist, and
apparently a very steady, respectable man. Believed that White
did it, but couldn't guess how it was done.-F. P.
I had to go out on the Saturday morning (March 3rd) to get some
swill for the pig, about 8.15 a.m. I passed by. White's house, and hear-
ing a disturbance, I looked over the railings, and White said to me,
" There's something in the house that's breaking all afore it." I asked
him what it were, and he told me to come and see. I got over the
railings, and I followed White into his own house. He took me into
212 Journal of Society jor P8yckical Re8earch. [Dec., 1884.
the front place where the clock was hanging over the bed's head, and was
showing me a nest of drawcrs, where his suit of clothes came out of the
bottom drawer into the top one but one. While I was looking at the
drawer, and the broken pots there was lying there, the clock by some
mea.ns came from the wall, slantingwise about seven feet, and
dropped clear of the bed's foot onto the floor. It had been fastened
up on the wall, near the bed's head, and it fell between the
bed's foot and the door. I said, "What is that 1" White said, "It's
something else smashed." I turned round and saw tha.t it was the
clock. The nail still remained in the wall. The girl Rose was coming
out of the kitchen towards the inner door, but had not got quite up to
it. She seemed to be much frightened. White said to me, "It doesn't
matter a damn where that lass goes, there's something smashes." The
clock was taken right away into the yard and placed on an empty cask,
and there it stayed. White a.nd I were alone in the front room when
the clock fell. White and I then went into the back kitchen, and I
remained about four feet from the outer door, with my face towards the
fireplace. I then saw a pot dog leap from the mantelpiece, and come
within a.bout five feet of the pantry door and break, passing close to me.
There was nothing attached to it, and there was no one near it. I then
began to move away,and just then Coulter appeared. This would' be
between 8.30 and 8.45 a.m. Coulter had not come before whilst I was
there, aDd certainly had not been present when the clock and the dog
were broken. The clock was in the yard when he came, and I showed
it him there.
John Street, Worksop.
8eh April, 1883.
(Signed) ARTHUR OURRASS,
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The following addition. lta1J/J been made mice last month.
INGRAM (John H.) The Haunted Homes and Family Traditions of
Great Britain. 2nd Series ........r .............................. LO'lidon, 1884
PAINE (Albert W.) The New PhiloBephy... ......Bangor,Me., U.S.A., 1884*
PERFECT WAY (The); or, The Finding of Christ. (A Second Oopy.)
London, 1882
SINNETT (A. P.) Esoteric Buddhism. 4th Edit. (Two Copies) London, 1885
WILDE (W. R.) Irish Popular Superstitions ........................J)ublin, N.D.t
TAINE (H.) De l'Intelligence, 2 voL, 4th Edit......................Paris, 1883
* Prt'seDted by the Author. t PreseDted h7 the Rev. CaDon Wood.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1884.] JOlel'llal qf Societglor P'!lchical Researcll. 213
--------
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
VIII.
In order that the relation which the cases given in these papers
bear to one another may be more clearly understood, I give here an
analysis of the system of classification adopted. It will be seen that
Division L has already been rapidly traversed in these papers, and that
inthe Journal for November we dealt with Divison II.,ClassG, Group a.
I hope gradually to work through all these 'divisions, but should be
very glad of any suggestions or criticisms.-F. W. H. MYERS.
PRINCIPLES OF THE PROVISIONAL CLASSIFICATION ADOPTED.
As regards the broader divisions, the cases have been BO classed
as to illustrate the theory which regards Phantasms of the Living o.a
a development of Thought-transference. The mode of impact 'on
the percipient's mind has therefore been the point primarily regarded.
DIVISION I. has been made of cases where the phantasm was
perceptible to one pel'Son only-individual cases.
Cases may be classed as individual for two main reasons. Either
the nature of the phantasm was such that there seemed no probability
of its being shared with other persons, even when other persons were
present at the time; or else other persons were present at the time,
and as a matter of fact did not perceive the phantasm in question.
This cistinction will be better understood if we take the classes in
oroer. .
CLASS A contains cases where the transferred impression or idea
does not take the form of a definite quasi-sensible phantasm.
TM first group a under class A comprises the vaguest cases of
all: those where the percipient merely feels an impression that
death or misfortune is happening to BOme one of his acquaintance.
This vague impression may affect (in varying proportions) the senses,
intellect, emotions or will. Sometimes it is mainly BenIlO7'y, BOmetimes
ideational, BOmetimes emotional, and sometimes volitional or rather
motor; that is to say, including an impulse to go somewhere or do
aomething.
TIUJ second group fJ under class A begins the cases where there is
identification as well as impression j that is, when the percipcnt feels
aure wI/'() it is that is ill some way Buffering. In group fJ we have
Digitized by Google
214 Journrel qf Society for pS.'1cl/.ical Researck [Dec., 18M.
placed cases of this sort, where the agent is in distress or danger
but not dying.
Group 'l' (class A) contains cases of the same kind as group {J (im
pression with identification) but differing from group {:J insomuch as
the agent is actually dying.
Group a (class A) begins the cases where there is an approximation
to sensory hallucination. Group a comprises cases where there is a
dijfusedfeeling ofphysical wretclUJdness, &c., at the time of the friend's
death.
Group ~ (clas3 A) comprises cases where there is a sense oftlUJ presence
of some one at a distanr.e, which turns out to correspond with the time-
of his death or danger. .
Group ,(class A) comprises cases where a name is internally
impressed on the percipient, not; like an actual sound, but as though
arising within himself. .
Group '1 (class A) comprises cases \where there is an approach to
auditory ',allucination; a sound or call suggested but not developed into
distinctness. .
Group 6 (class A) comprises cases where there is an approac/, to
'Visual l£allucination, a face vividly pictured in the 'mind's eye,' &c.
CLASS B comprises cases where the transmitted sensation is visual-
of a scene which passes from agent's to percipient's mind•.
Group a (class B) comprises cases where the scene is reflected
from the agent's memory to the percipient's sensation-having actually-
occurred some time previously.
Group {:J (class B) comprises cases where the scene is re8ected
directly from the agent's perception to the percipient's, at the moment
of its occurrence.
CLASS C comprises cases where t.he transmitted picture, instead
of remaining as a picture felt to exist merely in the percipient's brain,.
seems to become external, and to imprint itself on some convenient.
surface, as a wall or curtain, but does not yet appear to form a real
part. of the solid external world. .
CLASS D begins the cases which rise above the level of mere im-
pressions. It comprises cases where the sensation of the agent is
reproduced in the percipient so as irresistibly to suggest an external
cause; as in the case of the blow on the mouth felt directly by
~. Se\'ern and in a transmitted manner by Mrs. Severn
Digitized by Google
Dec.,l884.] Journal qf Society for P8ycllic~1 Re8earch. 215
CLASS E differs widely from the preceding classes, and seems mo~
analogous to clairvoyance; for it contains cases involving an apparent.
displacement of the agent's centre of consciousness.
Group a (clas8 E) comprises the cases where this apparent transpo-
sition of the centre of consciousness occurs involuntarily,
Group fJ (clas8 E) comprises the cases where there is an effort
on the percipient's part to realise or be 'spiritually present' in some
distant scene; followed by a consciousness of that scene as actually
present, although the actors in the scene are not aware of the percipient's
~spiritual presence' among them.
Thus far there has been something in the nature of the percipient's
experience, in each. successive class of cases, which leaves us with no
reason to expect that other persons should share that experience. In class
E, indeed, it is conceivable enough that an actor in the scene witnessed
might, on his part, discern the percipient's phantasmal presence; but
the experience of the two would not in that case be the 8ame, but only
correlative: the case would be one of reciprocity, not of collectivity of
impression.
CLASS F, however, brings us ~ongSt cases where the percipient's
experience is of such a kind as to raise a natural expectation of its being
shared by others. It comprises all narrativelJ ofextemalised phantasms,
-voice, figure, &~, perceived by one person alone, although others were
in his company an:! so situated that they would have perceived any
ordinary voice, figure, &c., as readily as he.
The cases under this class may be best arranged according to their
parallelism with the several classes of Division II., which, as will be
seen immediately, correspond with various types or degrees of the
development of the phantasms.
We have thus exhausted the cases where a phantasm is unquestion-
ably individual,-not common to more than one percipient. But there
are very many cases-'lI.etural cases, we may call them-where it is im-
possible to be sure whether others besides the actual percipient would
have perceived the phantasm or not, because no one else has been·
present at the time, or in a position to perceive tho sight or sound, e,·en
had it been normally perceptible to all persons alike.
DIVISION IL comprises these neutral cases, where tbe percipient is.
virtually alone. There may, indeed, be persons rather near him, or even
someone asleep in the same room, for many of these are nocturnal cases;.
but it is of course impossible to be sure whether the phantasm (if it had
been a real human voice or an ordinary intruder) would have wo.ked the,
sleeper, or a~tracted the attention of persons at some little distance.
Digitized by Google
216 Journnl ~f Society for PS!lcliical Research. (Dec., 1.884.
It seems likely enough that phantasms occur more readily in hours
of quiet and solitude; IiDd (especially if dreams be included) the propor
tion of nocturnal to diurnal phantasms seems larger than the number of
actual hours of rest would lead us to expect.
These numerous neutral cases give us an opportunity of classifying
the phantasms themselves more minutely than we have yet done. We
may arrange them in a series of ascending complexity, or rather with
. reference partly to their complexity and partly to their apparent
development in the percipient's mind or in the agent's.
\V., must begin, however, with the cases where the phantasm is least
developed.
CLABS G comprises rudiulenf,ary unrecognisable pktlnta8mB,-BOuuds,
touches, or appearances which have no obvious connection with any
given person; so that only the time-coincidenc~ can be appealed to to
show their veridical character.
Group a (class G) contains auditory phantasms of this vague kind
such 'as blows or lashes heard at the moment of death.
Gro1.tp ~ (class G) contains vague tactile phantasms,-unrecognised
touches.
Gron]J ')I (class G) contaius apparently arbitrary visual phantasms
occurring at the moment of death,-such as a ball of fire.
CLASS H is a large and important one. It contains cases where the
phantasm, though recognised, is not completely externalised as the
figure of the dying person in any definite dress. This class includes
many recognisable calls or to'UclleB, and some curious cases where the
figure seems to form itself from mist, and could never be mistaken for
the actual person whose semblance it wears.
Group a of this class contains auditory phantasms; Group fl, tactile;
Group ')I. visual; Group 3 comprises cases where both sight and hearing
art) appealed to; Grot£p £, tactile and visual cases; Group t. auditory
and visual.
CLASS I. We now enter on cases where the phantasm is developed
into a definite recognisable form. And we have to consider what
kind of phantoms seem to carry with them most trace of the action of
the percipient's own mind, and, therefore, come nearest to the phe-
nomena of Thought-transference, from which we start. We wish, that
is to say, to discriminate phantoms which have apparently passed
.tllrou!/l£ the percipient's mind, and been there shaped or modifiecl•
.before we attack the cases where the phantom seems at fi~t sight
Digitized by Google
Dec.,lBS",.] JOI"."al of Societ!/.!or Psychical Re8earch.. 217
be such as the percipient's mind cannot have helped to create. We
find, then, that there are a number of cases where the phantom presents
itself with dream-like surroundings, such as we can suppose that the
percipient's mind would add in transitu to a vague telepathic impression.
It is not intended to assert that this dream-like element may not be
due to the agent's mind, only that when the symbolism, &c., is such
as might naturally pre-exist in the percipient's mind, it seems easier to
suppose that it had its origin eltere.
Group a (class I) contains cases where the local CirCttlllBtallceB where
the phantom is seen appear to have suggested its special aspect; where
it seems to' be fitted in, as it were, to some striking scene (as a stoml
at sea) which is actually going on before the percipient's eyes.
Group fJ (class I) contains cases where something in the percipient's
memory seems to have suggested the details of the phantom.
Group y (claB8 I) contains cases where the idea of deatl~ seems to
have suggested some familiar symbol, as a coffin, &c.
Group a(class I) contains cases where the idea of a liberated soul
seems to have suggested the imagery: as of a. figure rising upwards, a
child's figure, &c.
Group ~ (class I) comprises cases where preconeeived ideas.of a.
future state may be conjectured to have been operative in giving
character to the phantom. Under this head we have provisionally
included the hearing of music at death; one of the most perplexing of
our phenomena.
Group , (class I) contains phantoms with ele]Dents of inexplicable
grotesqueness, often atrongly resembling the imagery of a. feverish
dream.
CLASS J. Our next class is the large one where the phantom appears
in the dying man's habitual costume, ao that it is impossible to say
whether agent's or percipient's mind is more likely to be responsible
for an aspect familiar to both.
Gf'OUp a (class J) contains cases where the figure is merely presented,
with no special action or other recorded detail.
Group fJ (class J) contains cases where the figure seems to move
away from the percipient; a circumatance sufficiently common to be
conveniently taken as distinctive of a group.
Group y (class J) contains cases where there is some symbolism of
farewell, or other expressed emotioc-.
Group aand Grollp ~ (class J) contain phantasms auditory as v:ell
as visual, and tactile as well as visual.
Digitized by Google
218 Journal qf Boekt.1f for PS!lchical Research. [Dec.,l8S4
Grol'p C(class J) contains c8.lles where the phantasm is repeated
more than once, with a sensible interval j a phenomenon commoner in
dreams than in waking hallucinations.
CLASS K. In our next class there is a more distinct and obvious
dependence of the details of the phantasm on the agent's condition at
the time.
Group a (class K) contains cases where words uttered, or sounds
made, by the agent at the moment are reproduced as auditory phantasms
for the percipient.
Group f:l (class K) contains cases where the agent is seen in an
indefinite white dress (possibly nigh~ress) or in a nigh~ress, in
which he probably was at the time.
Gro~,p 'Y (class K) contains the cases where some other dress,
actually worn at death, is reproduced.
Group a (class K) is the very important group which contains
eases where the phantom presents marks of disease or accident,
especially of drowning.
Group ~ (class K) contains a few cases where the phantoms hold
some object, or perform some act, which the agent, was holding or
performing at the moment of death.
CLASS L includes cases where the imagery of the phantasm seems
clearly to be derived from the agent's mind rather than the percipient's.
Group a (clfU/s L) contains cases where the phantom'S dress is neither
one which he was wearing at the moment, nor one in which the
percipient is likely to conceive him, but is one to which his own mind
might possibly be directed.
Group f:l (class L) contains cases where the dress is that which was
worn at death, but there is some symbolism in addition.
Group 'Y (class L) includes some difficult cases where the phantom
appears to give information j or where there seems a doubt as to
whether the phantasm (though announcing the death of the supposed
agent) is in reality projected from the dying man himself.
CLASS M. Our next class contains cases where the phantasm,
though definite enough to be recognised, and though representing
a known person, was not in fact recognised. It is not maintained that
this non-recognition is any strong indication that the phantasm has not
in fact passed through the percipient's mind. But in any case it is
convenient (though possibly not quitt' logical) to place aU these cases
of non-recognition together. Group a contains the auditory cases of
Digitized by Google
lJec., 1831.) Jottl'nal qf Boric!." lor P·wchicnl RCIICQ1·ch. 219
this kind, grot£p fJ the visual, and group y the cases where more
senses than one have been appealed to without inducing recognition.
CLASS N. Our next class ta.kes us one stage further from our
first telepathic standpoint. For we come to cases where it is difficult
tQ suppose that there was any such rapport existing between agent and
percipient as to make an apparition of the one to ,the other in any way
probable. It seems in the.;e cases as if the mere locality in which the
percipient is at the time, his nearness to some other person or to some
'Place in which the agent is interested, leads to his witnessing the
phantasm.
In Group a we present the cases where there was some previous
acquaintance between agent and percipient; in 9rouP fJ the cases
where the one was a stranger to the other.
CLASS O. This clasll contains the rare cases where the phantoms of
more than one person appear simultaneously to the Bame percipient.
With these difficult cases we concludo our classification of phantasms
perceived by one person only.
DIVISION III. Collective Cases. The three classes which compose
this Division are each of them of great importance.
CLASS P contains cases where a phantasm is manifested to two or
more percipients at nearly or exactly the same time, but in different
places, thus obviating the idea that one percipient has influenced the
other by suggestion. The phantasms are not always oj tlte sarM nature
for both percipients, and the varieties of combination are very in-
'Structive.
Group a (cla,s P) contains cases where two separate impressio'/UJ, of
a Cognate kind, have been felt by two persons at a distance from each
othe~ .
Group fJ (class P) comprises cases where one percipient has ex-
perienced an impression, and the other a developed phantasm.
Group y (class P) comprises C&Bes where the telepathic impact has
apparently taken the form of a dream for one percipient, and of a.
phantasm for the other.
Group a(class P) comprises cases where two cognate plwntasms ha"'6
been observed by persons not present together in the Bame room.
Digitized by Google
220 •TO/mUll qf &cief!lfor Psychical Researcl,. [Uec.,ISS"•
Group. (class P) comprises cases where the same symholicalpl14nta&'11l
has bee~ perceived by persons not present together.
"""bLABS Q is a very large one. It contains cases where more than.
one person, present together, have perceived the same phantasm.
Comparing the number of cases under this head with those under ftIh-·
class F it will be seen that when several people are together and a.
phantasm occurs, the chances are largely in favour of aU perceiving it.
OLASS Q, in fact, covers again the whole of the same ground as is.
included in Division II., with the difference that each class of
phantasm there described as occurring in the presence of one person
only, here occurs in the presence of several, and is noted by all. The
groups of class Q conaequently correspond to classes .. G to 0 ..
which form Division II.
OLASS R. Reciproca18.-0ne class, perhaps the most interesting
of all, remains. It sometimes happens that the consciousneSB of a
presence is mtttual,. that the two persons concerned are each of them
agent (in the sense in which we have hitherto used the word) and each
of them percipient :-this may happen in various ways, and in ma.ny
instances there are indications of it where it does not demonstrably
occur. Usually, however, in such cases, there is an apparent displace--
ment of consciousness on the part of one only of the two persons con;.
cerned; and it will be convenitmt to confine the term "agent," in
dealing with these cases, to the person whose consciousness is thus.
apparently diaplaced.
GroU!) a (cltus R) contains cases where the agent (in the special
sense just explained) is in a normal condition at the time.
Group S (class R) contains cases where the agent is asleep; group 'Y>
c&ses where he is entranced or delirious; group 3, cases where he is.
dyinv.
<If JZ :7I'"o-'ti~ ~ i .J.<.~. ~~- ~~ _ ....-<. c..+-~~ T,
tJ"e'4-ss<jJ, _~ ~ ~ ~"tu.....f..-..'~e. a.....ti=;....._t;;. ..
7k. ~ .4 "'~~'4 f-~- -~.
Digitized by Google
