{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1melanie_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Melanie W NDE 2363","mylang":"de"}
          	        Melanie W NDE 2363  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Melanie W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						692  Melanie W NDE  2363  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had severe head trauma after being hit with a shot-put at a track and field tournament. I remember feeling like I was drowning in my own blood, then rising above the scene. There was no pain associated with this. My account was brief. I remember feeling as if I was part of the air, warm and weightless, as I drifted upward. I was wearing a shirt from my childhood that my mother had made me when I was a small child. I watched the activity on the field and saw an ambulance van pull on to the field, and a body placed inside it. I felt I had no connection to it. I was just an observer. I then remember going back into my body, and the paramedics cutting my shirt off. That was my last memory until waking up in the hospital. I found out later that someone had wrapped my head in ice and towels immediately after the accident, so there was no way I could have seen all that was happening. During my NDE I felt only love and peace.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Fall 1977  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Other Life threatening event, but not sure of clinical death.  Severe head trauma.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like I had experienced being truly present. This is something that stayed with me after the event, and I have tried to keep since.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time seemed to stop.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had a very wide angle of view, like I could see as clearly with my peripheral vision as I could with direct vision.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Nothing distinct, but it felt like a different dimension.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love and no fear. I felt comfort that can't be described in human emotion.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Raised Catholic, but had a lot of unanswered questions.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is love, and everywhere.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I believe that most religions speak the same truth when looked upon closely: Love and Forgiveness.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is love, and everywhere.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I no longer feared death, and feel like I have a special understanding of it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel a great closeness to my special friend who I can share this with.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of weightlessness - that everything was right in the world - love.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel like I am more intuitive, able to read energy. I denied this for years, but have now come to trust it almost unconditionally.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that as a teenager, I no longer feared passing over. I know it'll be okay when it's my time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared it with a nurse in the hospital, and she got me the book 'Life After Death'. I continue to talk about it with close friends. Most are afraid of it, but just the other day, a friend shared his own NDE. It gave me great comfort to hear him speak of it, as he's not a very spiritual person.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was still in bad condition after the event, being on drugs, etc. Even though, I never doubted that it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Through my own spiritual growth, I have become grateful for the experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melanie_w_nde.html