{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1meinhard_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Meinhard G Possible NDE 5448","mylang":"de"}
          	        Meinhard G Possible NDE 5448  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Meinhard G Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3347 Meinhard G Possible NDE 5448  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was about 8 years old when my mother told me that I was stillborn .

At my birth, the umbilical cord was twisted around my throat.  The doctor took me into another room. Through a corner window, my mother watched the doctor and other hospital personnel work to start me breathing.  After a while, they brought me actively whimpering back to my mother. 

Later in life, I read books about 'life after death' themes.

While studying these books, an old memory surfaced like a kind of dream.  This memory also made me wonder because it never faded and at times of leisure, I liked to relive this dream, which is many decades old.

After my recent study of Dr. Jeffrey Long's book 'Evidence of Afterlife' I now feel sure, that the dream was a NDE.

I was moving at high speed through a dark tunnel toward a strong light at the end of the tunnel. Then I floated out of the tunnel into a very bright light, which completely enveloped me.  There was a feeling of great love surrounding me. While I was in this abundance of light and love, I noticed that I was standing in front of a stage similar to a stage of a theater. There were two female, angelic looking beings of light. They had bodies but were shining so brightly that I could not see their faces in detail.  They encouraged me not to be afraid. I said that I wanted to stay with them always because it felt so wonderful and loving there. The taller of the two beings of light then said it would be my decision to stay or go back. She made it clear to me that it was my duty to come into the world to fulfill some tasks. There would be some people who would be waiting for me to come back.  She told me that the two of them would someday be waiting for me in the world. I then felt that I must make a decision. Despite the fact that I was just born I understood the words of the light being as if I had been an adult. After that, I was pulled through the tunnel with a fast rate of descent.

Then there is no other memory. -- End of NDE. --

I feel that I had this NDE during my  birth. After the doctor and hospital personnel had been able to stimulate my heart and pulmonary system, and start me breathing, I went from the near-death realm back into my body.

This is my curious NDE story... told 83 years after it happened!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  '17. 04. 1930, Zeitpunkt meiner Geburt (''Tot''-Geburt)'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  'Meine eigene Geburt (''Tot''-Geburt)im Spital.  Klinik-Ärzte und Personal bemühten sich erfolgreich, mich zum Lebens-Eintritt zu bringen.'  Other 'Bei meiner Geburt war die Nabelschnur um meinen Hals gewickelt. Meine Mutter fragte den Arzt: Weshalb schreit mein Baby nicht. --Arzt vertröstete sie und ging mit mir in anderen Raum. Meine Mutter konnte via ein Eck-Fenster in Nachbarraum hinüber sehen u  My birth with complications (umbilical cord was twisted around my throat)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness while I was in front of the taller light being listening to her explanations

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in front of the taller light being listening to her explanations

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The room where the light beings were standing and where I was floating in front of them, was extremely bright. Looking into it was almost as if I was looking into the sun with my naked eyes. The color was a golden yellow. The field of vision was normal, approximately 120 degrees. It was not 360 degrees.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The NDE experience started with the journey through the dark tunnel, where a bright light could be seen in the distance.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Two female light-beings, on a stage in front of me

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright at the end of the tunnel

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The feeling of great love and security

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Since my NDE happened during my birth, I could not have a life review at all.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Experience was probably real. I kept this memory of the NDE in my mind for as long as I remember.  It came repeatedly into my awareness. It did this over decades without fading.  After studying relevant literature about NDEs I identified my experience in all details as absolutely conclusive.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1meinhard_g_nde.html