{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1910","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n12_jan_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N12 January 1885","mylang":"de"}
Jio. xu.] [lUllABY, 1S8&.
JOURNA.L
OF THE
SOCIETY· FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
"To our Read8l"ll ••••• ,..
lie" Membel'll &1Id .AI8oclatea
CouncJl Meeting •• ..
GeneraJ. Meeting .., ...
(lolnc1dental DreamlJIg
CORTERTS.
PAGB PAGB
... 221 , Spec\menB of the ClaIaiIlcatton of Cases
.. 22Il for .. PhantllllDl ofthe LiVIng· .. .. 238
.. 2iI:I CasesRecelYed by the Literary.Committee 245
... ~ Correspondence .. .. •• .. .. .. 254
•• 226 Supplementary Library Catalogue ., ... 256
TO OUR READERS.
It will be interesting to our Members to know that at the close of
-the year 1884 the Society consisted of:-
Members
Associates
HonoraryMembers ...
Corresponding Members
Honorary ABBOCiates
Vice-Presidents who are not otherwise Members
Total
223
258
6
9
21
3
••• 520
In fact, during the past year the Society has nearly doubled the
number of its Members and Associates. A similar progression took
-place during 1883, for at the close of that year there'were 288 Members
;and Assoriates compared with 150 at the close of 1882, at the begin-
ning of which year the Society was founded. We can hardly expect
the growth of the Society to continue in this geometric progression,
though we may reasonably hope that the Society, being now so widely
and honourably supported, will "go from strength to strength."
Thanks to the assiduity of its Special Committee, and to its generous
donors, the Library, at 14, Dean's Yard, now numbers nearly 800
volumes, bearing for the most part upon the various subjects that
(lome within the scope of the Society'S operations. Of these books, 52Q
are in English, 135 in German, 110 in French, and 15 in other languages.
Our readers will find on another page some important suggestions
relative to the future attitude of the Council towards the investigating
Committees, made by the President in his address at the last General
Meeting.
Itis hoped that these proposed changes will not only enable some dis-
tinguished scientific men, who take an interest in the Society's work, to
Digitized by Google
.222 Journal. qf Socz'efyfor P81/chical Re8earch. [Jan., 1885.
become members of the Council, but that they will also tend to-
promote more numerous centres of investigation, and more frequent
contributions of papers to the Society's Proceedings.
Another change, which will take effect immediately, will also be of
special interest to the readers of this Journal. The Literary Committee
have resolved to publish in the .Tournal a selection of the reports of
phenomena that they from time to time receive. Such reports have
hitherto been printed on slips and kept at Dean's Yard, and have,
therefore, been only accessible to members who go to the rooms of the
Society to see them. A vast accumulation of these cases, most of
which are still under consideration by the Committee, can· be seen at
Dean's Yard. In future the wider publicity which these cases will
receive will doubtless evoke from many of our members both criticism
~nd theory, expression to which may be given in the pages of the
Journal.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
GRAHAM, ALEXANDER, 9, Gray's Inn Square, London, W.C.
MACALISTER, JOHN J. W., Leeds Library, Leeds.
PAGE, A. 0., M.D., Truro, Nova Scotia.
SENNETT, ALFRED R., A.M.I.C.E., M.S.T.E., 62, Hatton Garden, E.C.
STAPELTON, JOSIAH G., 47, Lee Terrace, London, S.E.
VANE, FRANCIS P. F., Isthmian Olub, 12, Grafton Street, London, 'v.
ASSOCIATES.
BIRRELL, MISS, 37, Addison Gardens North, London, W.
CAMPBELL, JAMES A., Barbreck Loch.Gilp-head, Argyll, N.B.
FORD, MISS EMILY S., 27, Albany Street, London, N.W.
GRAHAM, J. W., B.A., Avenham View, Preston.
LAYCOCK, REV. JAMES A., M.A., 2, Eton Terrace, Harrogate.
MARSHALL, ARTHUR, Weetwood Hall, Leeds.
MARTIN, MRS. ELIZABETH G., 42, Rue Gambetta, Honfleur (Calvados).
France.
MOULE, JOHN, Codicote, Welwyn, Herts.
ROXBURGH, ROBERT, M.B., F.R.C.S.E., Weston.super.Mare.
VIVIAN, H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
WALKER,MISS M., 17, Gloucester Street,Warwick Square, London,S.W.
WHITE, WILLIAM, Morden House, 55, Highbury Hill, London, N.
WHITE, MRS. HENRY, 22, Grosvenor Place, London, S.W.
WINCKLEY, MRS., Flambards, Harrow-on-the-Hill, near London.
Digitized by Google
Jau., 1885.] Journal oj Society for Psychical Reseat·cn. 223
COUNCIL MEETING.
At a COWlcil Meeting, held on the 30th of December, the President
in the chair, the following Members were present :-Professor Barrett,
Messrs. Alexander Calder, Walter H. CQffin, Edmund Gurney, Chas.
C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, Henry A. Smith, and J.
Herbert Stack.
After the Minutes of the previous Meeting had been read, six new
J'r.{embers and 14 new Associates were elected, whose names and addresses
appear on another page.
Two Members, namely, Mr. James Brittenand Mr. George F. Pope,
desired to continue as Associates for the coming year, which was
agreed to.
Two Members, namely, Major-General Maclean and Mr. Frederic W.
Sharpe, and two Associates, namely, Mr. Henry Y. Dickenson and Miss
Lucy Stables, tendered their resignations, which were accepted with
regret.
The stock of Proceedilngs, Part III., being nearly exhausted, it
was resolved that a second edition of 1,000 copies be printed according to
an estimate which had been obtained for the work.
The President brought before the Council some changes which he
thought might be introduced with advantage into the mode in which
the work of the Society was carried on. He would propose, with regard
to the expenditure by Committees, that they should have definite grants
authorised, in anticipation of their requirements. He also wished to
propose that for the future the formal relation of the Committees, both
to the Council and to the Society, should be changed, so t.hat the COWlcil
should no longer appoint the Committees, or hold itself responsible for
their reports: its function should be merely to bring before the Society
and the public the results of research conducted hy properly qualified
persons. He thought this change on the wliole desirable, even in
regard to those branches of inquiry which had hitherto mainlyengaged
the Society's attention; and he thought it was still more important in
regard to other branches which were likely to engage the attention of
the Society in the future, and in the investigation of which it was pro-
bable that there would be greater differences of individual opinion than
in those matters which had mainly occupied them in the past. In
making such a change as this, the President pointed out that they
would be following precedent, especially the practice of the Royal
Society, an extract from the rules of which the President read, in
harmony with the course he was advocating.
The Council concurred with the views of the President, who subse-
Digitized by Google
224 Journal qf &Ckty lor P'!lckical Re,earck. [Jan., 18850
quently entered mare fully into the ma.tter in his remarks at the
General Meeting in the evening.
It was agreed that the Annual Business Meeting of the Members
of the Society should beheld on Friday, the 30th of January, at the
Rooms of the Society, 14, Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W., at 3.30
p.m. The requisite notices were directed to be sent out in accordance
with the Constitution and Rules.
It was also agreed that a General Meeting should be held on the
evening of the same day, at the Rooms of the Society of British
Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall. The chair to be taken at 8.30 p.rn.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society. which was largely attended, was
held in the Hall of the Society of British Artists, on December 30th.
The chair was taken by the President of the Society, who, in opening
the proceedings, remarked :-
It is proposed, at the next Annual Meeting, to obtain the approval
of the Society for a change of some importance in the relations between
the Council and the Committees for experimental investigation.
Hitherto these Committees have been appointed by the Council as
Committees of the Society, and the Council has been, to some indefinite
extent, responsible for their reports. There is no reason to !>elieve that
this responsibility has so far been felt as burdensome by any member of
the Council; and it seemed desirable, in the first stage of the Society's ex-
istence, that the startling experiences and views laid before the public by
the Committees should, if possible, receive whatever support could be
given them by the official acceptance of the Council But in dealing
with subjects so difficult and obscure as those into which we have under-
taken to inquire-in which the methods of investigation must neces-
sarily be very tentative, and the most cautious investigator must expect
from time to time to have to retrace his steps, regard the results already
attained in a new light, and admit the misdirection and waste of a
certain portion of his labour-it would be a mistake perma-
nently to hamper the selection of papers for publication by
requiring the Council to be in substantial agreement with the
conclusions arrived at by their authors. It rather seems
desirable that the Society for Psychical Research should, in this matter,
follow the example set by the Royal Society; i.e., that it should be
expressly stated that the Council does not as a body give any opinion
on the subjects brought before them, eitherby Committees or individuals.
Henceforth, then, the publication of the papers in the Proceeding!J
would only imply that the Council regards them as, on the whole,
Digitized by Google
J"aa., 1885.] Jounaat of 8ociet!!for Payckical Be8earck,' 225
deserving the attention of persons interested in the subjects to which they
relate, "without pretending to answer for the certainty of the facts or
propriety of the reasonings contained in the several papers so published,
which must rest on the credit or judgment of their respective
authors."·
It is hoped that the present investigating Committees will continue
their functions; but, with the exception of the Literary Committee, it
is intended that for the future they should not be appointed or in any
way controlled by the Council. The Council will merely (1) assign to
them whatever portion of the funds of the Society it may think fit, to
meet the expenses of investigation; and (2) accept from them, or from
any other competent Committees or individual investigators, such records
of work done as may appear, on the principles above stated, suitable for
communication to the Society or to the public at large.
The Literary Committee it seems desirable to retain as at present,
in order to secure the systematic collection, by a single organisation, of
scattered evidence bearing on the subjects investigated by the Society;
but the members of this Committee should have the sole responsibility
for any conclusions they may publish, as to the value of the evidence
collected, or its scientific explanation.
Professor Sidgwick added that an incidental advantage of the pro-
posed change would be that some of the scientific men who take an inte-
rest in the work of the Society, but do not see their way to spend much
time on it, might be induced to join the Council, and undertake the func-
tion of exercising a general supervision over the papers, and of giving
advice when anything appeared to them careless or hasty, either in the
experiments themselves or the inferences from them.
Professor Barrett then read a paper giving a number of casual
experiments on Thought-transference, which had belm received from
various correspondents throughout the country. It was pointed out
that although by themselves these cases are but. of slight evidential
value, yet, taken in connection with the more rigorous and.protracted
experiments of the Committee, they suggest a probably wide diffusion of
the faculty of incipient Thought-transference. Some discussion
followed, in which Professor Haycraft, Mr. Myers, Mr. Powell, and
others took part. Professor Barrett having replied, Mr. Edmund
Gurney gave an outline of the remarkable paper on Mental Suggestion
which Dr. Richet has recently published in the Revue PhiloBophique, a
review of which will appear in Part VII. of the ProceedinglJ of the.
Society.
The meeting then became informal. and conversational.
*Quoted from the advertisement prefixed to each volume of the Transactions
of the RoyaJ. Society.
Digitized by Google
226 Journal of Society/or P81Jckical Re&earck. lJan.,l885. .
COINCIDENTAL DREAMING.
The frequent discussions which have waged of late years concerning
so-called prescient dreams, presentiments and alleged spiritual pheno-
mena. of all sorts, have led most of us to form an opinion on the
question of whether their origin is supernatura.l* or otherwise. For
myself, having lived a great deal among the lottery-loving children of
Italy, not to speak of occasional visits to Monte Carlo, and hearing thus
a great deal of talk of the ignorant among the former, and of the
educated at the latter, concerning the effect of certain events, dreams
especially, on certain numbers, I haye been led to consider the two
groups of phenomena together, and of all the stories I have met with,
published or otherwise, there are none which cannot be accounted for
by the simple process of coincidence.
This is not the place, perhaps, to enter into a discussion of my
views of the subject, I state the fact because it is the ground of my
having so large a colle~tion of striking coincidences of the sort in hand.
My idea is that if everyone would note useless coincidences with as
much care as they bestow on the few which have a result that seems
like a warning or prediction, they would be satisfied thn.t the latter
are no more supernatural than the former.
That there may be hereafter to be unfolded a science of coincidences
is not impossible. What is any science but deduction from the
observation of coincidences 7 What is any so-called cause and effect
but a more or less frequently recurring coincidence 7 Meantime, the
only plan for groping the way towards finding out if there is such a
science is to observe and note all those which come in our way; by
collation and discussion the principle of their occurrence may in time
be guessed at with sufficient accuracy to turn them to some account.
I subjoin a quotation from an article on the subject, which I wrote
for Note8 mul Queries of 1st November, in the hope of inducing
others to take note of the similar" useless coincidences" which must
undoubtedly happen to most persons. It occurs in course of some
observations, on curious instances of inconscient thought.
"If people are constantly dreaming of a variety of subjects, it m1£3t be now
* One of the correspondents alluded to later on has objected to the intro-
duction of the word "supernatural" ; he says that if a thing happens it is of
its nature to happen,' and the word has no meaniDg. Of course, this is
trne for anyone who philosophises, but in writiDg for the general public, the
word obviously denotes a quality in an event which takes it out of that order
which they are accustomed to coluicler the common order of nature. Further
on in the same letter, he himself uses the word" chance," which seems tome
to be liable to the same limitation.
Digitized by Google
.Jan., 1885.] Journal fit Societyfor PS.I/ckical Research.
----------------~-
227
.and then that the subject dreamt of should happen to coinci.le with some-
thing that occurs shortly after. It is only when such coincidence is of
.an important nature that it is remembered and talked of, and then it is
,;thought only to be a.ccounted for by superna.turaJ agenry. But if people
would take note of the useless coincidences as well, one source of superstition
would be removed. I have myself in this view noted a considerable
number of very striking coincidental dreams, and so much to the point
that it may be thought worth while to give a couple of instances. In
the first case I had been somewhat troubled at having been obliged to
delay returning the call of a dear Roman friend, the late Countess
Lomax, and as the day was approaching for her leaving England, lone night
fulfilled the duty in a dream. She had given me an address at the house of
a relative, 36, Dorset Square; I had no distinct knOWledge where that
'Was, much less of how the numbers were distributed, nevertheless in my
dream I went straight to a house about the centre of the south side. Thill
actually proved to be the position of the house when I made my call in person
next day.
,. In the second ca.se I dreamt that I was walking in a wood in my
father's place in Kent, in a spot well known to me, where there
was sa.nd. under the firs; I stumbled over some objects, which proved to.
be the heads left protruding of some ducks buried in the sand. The
idea impreBBed me as so comical that I fortunately mentioned it at
breakfast ne~t morning, and one or two persons remember that I did
80. Only an hour later it happened that the old ba.ili1f of the place
came up for some instructions unexpectedly, and as he was leaving he said
he must tell us a strange thing that had lmppened: there had been a
robbery in the farmyard, and some stolen ducks had been found buried
in the sand, with their heads protruding, in the very spot where I had seen
.the same."if.
This story contains the elements of as improbable a coincidence
as could have occurred; yet it is impossible to suppose it any-
thing else. The farm was underlet, and I had not even any interest
in the ducks to carry my thoughts towards them under the nefarious
treatment they received. No discovery of the hiding-place nor
of the culprit ensued from my dream, but it is not at all
inconceivable to me that, out of all the dreaming and all the
happening of every night and day, a coincidence as circumstantial
.even as this should occur. Indeed, it seems to me that it mU8t of
necessity, once in a while, fallout so, and that if it had not been the
• The following is an attestation that this fact is remembered by an inde-
pendent witness :-
" I distinctly remember, and have often since spoken of the circumstance, of
ltfiss R. H. Busk's relating to me her dream of ducks buried in the wood,
'ilebrethebailift', who reported the incident, came up to town.--.1. PITT BYRNE."
Digitized by Google
228 Journal of Society for Psgchical Research.
custom to discourage any relating of dreams, such coincidences woula.
be found to happen as regularly as all the other coincidences of life.
In spite of the prohibition from telling one's dreams, which prevailed'
in one's earlier years. well I remember the first time I ever dreamt.
The enchanting surprise of it was like a revelation never to be forgotten.
I was about seven. I thought we were having the most delicious
children's party in the day-nursery; it was not a mere act of memory"
we never had one there. In the midst of the lights and the
dancing, the crackers and the negus, the noise of raking out the night-.
nursery grate woke me to a dingy winter's morning; but so strong was,
the fascination upon me that nothing could persuade me the next
room was not full of little playfellows, till I was dressed and allowed to-
go and soo its emptiness for myself. What a disillusion it was! And.
the immense difficulty I had in realising the truth still strikes me now.
There is, in "Pilgrims of the Rhine" a charming story, or rather'
suggestion for a story (for the opportunity has been really thrown away,
so weakly is it carried out) of a man, a German artist, if I remember-
right, whose real life is in his dreams. He meets his ideal there every
night, and passes his existence with her, only waking up to make enougbJ
by his painting for his support; to eat and drink to maintain life by its.
lower requirements, and then fall back into the happy land of sunshiny
fancy. Who could not imagine such an existence pleasanter than our'
ordinary" work-a-day" succession of processes 7 Who has not had'
nights of happy dreams enough to wish it could be so ordered 7 Do-
not our greatest pleasures come from illusions; not to speak of those-
which poets have descanted on, in Hope, Memory, Anticipation (which.
are all illusions), does not the chief delight of actual possession come·
from the illusory halo with which our imagination clothes the subject.
of it, for the nonce 1 And who knows that we might not,
arrive at the means of commanding our dreams if we only made
them a subject of sufficiently careful study 1 I have met people'
who thought they had the rudiments of such a. power. I re-
member, myself, while still a child, dreaming for two nights follow-
ing, that, when out for the usual "constitutional" in Kensingoon.
Gardens, a lion came up out of the well there and ran after me. I
resolved very determinedly to cure the fright, if it occurred again, by
saying, "It's only a dream." It did occur the next night, and I did,
command my thoughts sufficiently to observe my intention, but the
sensation of fear-probably the consequence of c. muffins for tea"-
remained just the same, and I remember running away shouting," It's,
only a dream!" till I awoke myself.
Since then it has been oftpn the converse that has happened. Con·
tinually, :while dreuming of dwarfs, or of animals talking, or other impos.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Journal of Society for P81/cnical1le8eflrcn. 229·
sible occurrence, I have gone to fetch people, or called those I thought.
stood by, to witness that these strange things actually do occur,
saying, "I am certainly not dreaming now, am 11" I remember, in
particular, once thinking I had floated down the ",hole length of St.
Peter's by the pleasant process which, I think, is dignified by
Spiritualists as "levitation," and finding a friend lighting his cigar at
a braBero under the portico ( ! ) calling him to bear witness that my feet
were not touching the ground, though he had lately denied the possi-·
bility of such an event. It was not a little mortifying, after such a.
triumph, to wake and find I had not had the opportunity of convincing.-
him after all! I tried, as I often have on other occasions, to restore my
mind to its late condition, but, even when falling asleep again imme-
diately, it is rarely that the chain of thought could be resumed.
To return to the coincidental class. I will give a few more of the
instances that have occurred to me, almost as circumstantial and quite.
as purposeless as the above.
1. I dreamt one night (in London) that I was in the Carnival in.
Naples, and among other proje<:t;iles that were being used along with,
the confetti were squibs and crackers; some of these struck a very fine·
palm-tree; in fact, the people in one balcony were making it their butt.
I was indiguant at the injury to the beautiful tree, and called to them to·
desist. A friend with me seconded these endea\'ours of mine, but what.
seemed to strike me most was that he kept urging on me confidentially-
not to say palm-tree, that no one ever now-a-days used the word, that
the accepted name in good society was "stem-tree." The next morning-
the Time8 contained an account of a quantity of "8tems ofpalm-trees W
having been washed ashore somewhere on the east coast of England.
2. One night, in Rome, I dreamt that in some shop, where I went:
with one of my sisters, the assistants were all deaf and dumb, to whom'
we could only explain our meaning by sigus; nevertheless they were
talking together glibly enough. I thought I pointed this out with some
indiguation, and that my sister answered, "Of course, deaf and dumb
people can always talk to f'ach other; it is only with us that they can't
communicate." The comicality of this fancy led me to tell her of the:
dream the next morning. Later in the day we went to a shop in the,
Via San Romualdo, where we often dealt, but through there being a.
new shopman who did not know the location of the goods, we were led,
to observe for thefirst time that the mistress of the shop, who sat at.
the desk, was deaf and dumb, as she had to direct him by signs how to.
find what we required."
*1 subjoin a line ofattestation concernin~ this instance also, premising how~
ever, that this writer's memory is not so distinct 88 the other's :-
"My sister, Miss BU'3k, told me of her dream of the deaf and dumb before thiSl
~umstance occurred.-RoSALIE VANSITTABT.-Rome, December 19th, 1884....
Digitized by Google
230 Journal of 8oekt.1I for Psgchical Research. [Jan., 1885.
3. Another time my dream was all a.bout a. brown retriever, it
seemed to me I ha.d never seen any but bla.ck retrievers before, and
wondered how this lU8U8 natural ha.d a.rrived. The next morning,
walking nea.r Portman Square, a brown retriever ran up a.gainst me.
Of course, brown retrievers are not very rare, and my una.ccountable
'Surprise at seeing one in a dream, in conjunction with meeting one,
not in a. game country, but in Portman Squa.re, was another" useless
'Coincidence."
4. Another time I dreamt that a. friend was about to be married to
'8. gentleman of my acquaintance; but as the sa.id friend was already
married I was greatly puzzled, for, with the usual certainty with which
the knowledge of an event presents itself in a drea.m, I ha.d no
doubt on the hea.d that the sa.id marriage was to take place; I wa.s only
oothered by the contradictory fa.ct I have named. By the next
morning's post I received a. letter from this very friend announcing the
sudden death of her husba.nd. (She did not marry the other man,
nowever.)
5. In another dream I found myself, without surprise, seated in a.
Protestant church, notwithstanding that I ha.d some yea.rs before
.become a Catholic, but I thought I was greatly concerned in keeping
the pla.ce next me for a. friend who was to join me there. To my
-disma.y, a gentleman came, "without with your leave, or by 'your
leave," and established himself in this pla.ce in a peremptory manner. I
turned round with the intention of evicting the intruder, though my
-hints ha.d no (lfi'ect upon him, but in doing so I observed that he was
Canon Kingsley. The next morning the first event that caught my
.eye in the newspaper was the announcement of Canon Kingsley's death.
Now, I knew no more of Canon Kingsley than of the Shah of Persia;
1 ha.d seen both in public, and I had rea.d a book by each, and there my
.acquaintance ended. I had not been thinking or talking about him.
1t could only have been a. kaleidoscope mixing up of ~images in
.the brain-yet, ha.d it been some pa.rticula.rly dear friend whom I ha.d
thought I felt placing himself so unexpectedly by my side, and ha.d
that friend also died unknown to me the day before, it would ha.ve been
.said by all ghost-believing people tha.t it was the actual spirit of the
.dear departed. As this was certa.inly no appa.rition of the sort, I argue
tha.t in the cases where the condition of a.fi'ection enters into the details
·of the case, they a.re yet nothing more than fortuitous coincidences
either.
6. I will mention, in connection with this, one incident-&. hallucina.-
tion, not a dream-out of ma.ny a.nalogous ones I have noted. A husband
.aild wife, friends of mine, reside abroa.d a. great deal; they are very
fond of ea.ch other, but the husba.nd has a greater fondness for foreign
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Journal ofSocietyjor P8!JcMcal Re8earch. 231
climates than the wife. One year the wife had insisted very much on
returning home, the husband was disinclined; I believe he had also some
literary work which tended to tether him, and the end of the discussion
was that the wife went home alone. One night, when my friend was
sitting up late writing, he received as strong an impression as possible.
that a cold grip had been laid upon his arm, and, on looking up, the form
of his wife seemed to stand beside him. He was so strongly impressed
that he could only summon courage to take one stolen glance a.t her.
and then she looked so pale and sad that he conceived the worst
apprehension, and, the firs~ thing in the m~rning, telegraphed to
inquire after her. The answer was that she had never been better in
her life. Again, had she died that night, you could not have persuaded
a ghost-believer but that her spirit" had been permitted to give him a
tender warning of her departure, on her way to the land of spirits." But.
as he received as strong an impression of her visit as possible when
nothing of the kind had occurred, why should it be any more real when
the coincidence ~ppens, of the person dying about the same time 1
To me thi:; sort of thing presents no sort of necessity for supposing
the intervention of the supernaturaL
The imagination gets very easily accustomed to form an image by
anticipation, of an object which a word or an association leads it to
expect to meet. How often, even a child (at an age when experience
has not yet crowded its mind with memories as in the case of older
persons) will answer, before we have d-one speaking, something which
the beginning of our sentence made it expect we were going to say, and
that within the half-second it takes us to bring out our real and quite
opposite purport. It is by such a process of mental anticipation that
we are prepared for the work of life,-that a formidable speaker in the
House has his answer ready for his antagonist, and the wit his repartee.
But a.ll qualities have their defects, and the defect of this one is, that
by ove~er readiness our mind forms its image of what it has to
prepare for, too quickly.
" 'Ve half create the wondrous world we see,"
and sometimes, while performing this our part in the reception of
images,we mtloke mistakes. As an instance-only yesterday, while hastily
glancing over the Time8 at breakfast, I saw a letter * on the Vivisection
question. The writer began by calling up a picture of a wretched sufferer
"on an invalid chair, propped by pillows, pale and careworn," whom he
further on declared tohavederived somebenefitfroma vivisection experi-
ment. But my sympathiesbeingantecedentlyalittleonthe side of the vivi-
*This letter has since become celebrated in the annals of the Vivisection.
controversy.
Digitized by Google
232 Journal of 8ociet!! for P8ychical Bmarcn.
sected fellow-a.nimal, and reading such a dismal description of the-
fellow-invalid, and not knowing which side the letter a.dvocated,_
as I divided my attention between the newspaper and the
breakfast-plate, my eye running over the next line read that this
wretched being had "a really p61&itent word to say on the subject."
Lower down I perceived I ha.d made BOme mistake, and then found the-
word was pertinent, not penitent. There was no blurr of the type, th&
mistake was entirely in my own imagination, fancying I saw the word
I expected.
This power of antic~pation is so strong that I have often fancied
for a moment that I /""d read a certain announcement in a letter, &c.•
when I was only recalling my brie£ mistaken expectation of what was.
coming, at the beginning of a sentence, which really, as it turned out,.
led up to something different.
And in a similar way, in the above instance, my friend who was;
writing in his armchair, probably brain-fatigued by his interest in the-
subject his pen was treating, found his attention fall away from it; his.
wandering thought would then naturally occupy itself with his distant.
wife; by association a little word would wake up in his memory, andi
point a twinge of self-reproach; hence would arise an affectionate-
anxiety as to her present condition. Just then might have supervened
a little shudder as the night-(lhill came on, and the fire burnt low,.
occasioning a sensation like a cold hand laid on his arm; with this
might have occurred a changing sha.dow thrown across the lamp-beams
from a sinking of the spent fuel in the stove. Quite materials enough
here to construct a "ghost" without need to "stir the heaven of
their repose" of those "who are at rest."
While this paper has been preparing for the press, I dreamt most
vividly of seeing two friends of mine (husband and wife) gliding
along the sea-shore, the one a little time after the other, but both look-
ing so strangely sad and wearing such mysterious aspect, altogether
unlike their own, that I took note of the exact date, and wrote to ask
if any coincidental unhappiness had occurred, for I am not so possessed
by my own theory that the possibility of that of others being right has.
no power to create misgivings where one's affections are concerned.
- The answer ~OTeed perfectly with what I take to be the key to all
" prescient" dreaming. A strong believer in the same might have put
the two together with the most insignificant amount of working up and
unconscious embellishment, and there would have resulted a most
notable example. But the strict facts point to nothing but the merest
coincidence. It happened that my friends were staying by the sea-side
(this I knew previously), and that a family calamity /6ad befallen one
of them at a time not far from that of my dream. But it did "'0' a.bsQ..
Digitized by Google
.;Jan., 1885.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. ~33
lutely coincide in date, as belief in the action of telepathy ought to
1'6quire; and it was not of the nature that my mind had been led to
.apprehend; so that it could not really be critically considered to fulfil
.the due conditions of pres cience or warning in any Way.
With regard to the lottery question, it is undeniable that both in
Tthe weekly public drawings in Italy, and at the tables of Monte Carlo.
numbers dreamt of with particular emphasis, or recommended by the
books of counsel as connected with various events, do, now and again.
£tum up. It could not be otherwise when the same are tried so often.
·0nce, when a nephew of mine had been set upon by some Revolutionists
un Rome for his known steadfastness to the rightful Government, a.
!Uumber of people in our neighbourhood who had seen him drive home
with forehead bleeding,played that week on the numbers corresponding
with~" gente assai," "grondante sangus," and the day of the month;
tthose numbers actually' came out. When Pius LX. died I was
absent from Rome, but a friend who knew I was interested in tellting
,these things, played for me (by the way, it is generally considered to
;"bring luck if another person plays for you)., I lost because two of the
.numbers selected failed to appear, but one of them-85, the number
:.assigned to "dead Pope "-really did, and I heard that out of the
rmultitude of combinations tried that week some people bit on one
'which won. When I was collecting "The Folk-lore of Rome," a weird
-old woman, who gave me several of the traditions for it, told me one
.day she had dreamt of three numbers recommended in the books of
.counsel, connected with something that had occurred to her, and she
was certain they must come out. I thought it incumbent on me to
,discourage her credulity, by refusing to profit by her advice; neverthe-
.less, her three numbers came out just as she had predicted. In course
·of the more than 20 years that I have known Italy I have been made
.acquainted with a few more such coincidences. But I have known
incomparably more trials that have failed. The disproportion is so-
.enormous that one would think it must destroy all faith in "trying one's
luck." But the argument of the votary always is that it was not the
.predicted number that was fa.llacious, it was that the player was not
.lucky enough to hit on the right combination of events; consequently
·.he goes on putting his faith in the numbers and trying over and over
.again various combinations until either he has no means left to try
with, or, by force of coincidences some combination he has tried turns
-out" lucky." This is the most unlucky event of all, because without
.counting up the number of failures; the one winning fact is published
;abroad and induces a number of other persons into error.
Since the above was written, my little article in Notes and
.Queries has brought me a good many letters on this suhject from
Digitized by Google
234 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8eal'cn. [Jan"1885..
various quarters, to some. of which I should be glad to sUbjoin a few .
'Words of reply. Mr. C. C. Massey, both in the columns of NoteB ana
QuerieB and of Ligl,t, and other correspondents in private letters,.
have taken exception to my introduction of the word "superstition."
It very often happens that, in striving after brevity, one fails to hedge
one's argument against conveying some one or other of the constructions
to which it is liable, but which it was not. intended to bear. That
there are people who attach a superstitious value to the alleged fulfil-·
ment of a dream he will not, I fancy, deny. But I can quite believe
that this has no connection with his own line of thought. At the same
time, if I said a few words in deprecation of superstition I do not.
see why persons who are not superstitious need take umbrage at them.
:Mr. Massey would very probably not deny either that the grounds of
belief in a future state, and the evidences of the separate existence of
a soul, must be sought in some region of inquiry quite above that of
hallucinations which may chance to coincide with a person's death, 01"'
a. "rapping, tapping, at my chamber-door," for which we may not for
the moment be able to account; that the arguments in favour of re-
ligious belief and of a moral government of the world, must stand or
fall by some higher criterion than the coincidental failing of an heir
to a family which has been guilty of spoliation or other crime.
I think of coincidences exactly what Max MUller has said of myths.
" Morals have been made an appendix" to coincidences just as they
have been" to fables." Coincidences in themselves, like" the original
myths, have no moral teaching. But art and religion have made use of'
coincidences as of "myths (themselves devoid of moral conscience) fol"
their own esthetic and moral ends."
By another correspondent it has been brought forward against my
theory of coincidences that dreams coinciding with subsequent events
are taken out of the category of common dreams by being more vivid
and coherent. I seize this opportunity of stating that my experience
is entirely at variance with this view. For besides that we have-
no proof they are more vivid except by arguing backwards (and
I have reMon to think many occur which, for want of being
vivid, are liimply not remembered), I have frequently had the most.
distinct and consecutive dreams which have had no sort of fulfilment.
I have somewhere a note of some curious dreams of encounters
and conversations with statues endued with life, that I have
had soon after being much in the sculpture galleries of Rome-
and Naples, but I cannot find it now. I have also dreamt·
with the greatest detail of being turned into stone, of the
gradual lowering of the temperature and subsidence of the pulse, the
horror at first, and the subsequent· peacefulness and fascination, till at.
Digitized by Google .
Jan., 1885.] Journal of &Cietlljor Pa,e/lical Reseal·cA. 23~
last one had attained a condition to awake from whieh was disappoin~
ment.
I have dreamt again and again of circumstances concerning absent
friends, or of seeing them with unaccountably sad and anxious looks,
which have struck me forcibly enough to make me secretly anxious t()
have news of them, and yet there was nothing in the least the matter
with them in reality. I have heard my room door burst open and my
name called, which is a favourite mode for the passing spirit of friends.
to manifest themselves 'among Germans, and yet the friend whose voice
I recognised has been all the time in normal plight. I have had quite
lately three most strikingly consecutive dreams, none of thron con-
nected with any matter in which 1 had been recently engaged, which
have remained in my mind without any attempt at fading away. In
the first I thought I was living in a verylarge, well-appointed house, and
some ill-looking gipsies came to the window to beg, whereupon the
mistress of the house was seized with the idea that it would exercise a.
civilising influence on them to invite them in and show them all the
convenient arrangements of a luxurious abode; accordingly we led them
over every part of the house and showed thflm the pictures and the
bric-a-brac, and explained the uses of everything; but at last my
hostess, to my extreme surprise, led them downstairs into a large crypt
which ran all the way under the house, and where I seemed to know
that we had Pius IX. in keeping, because he was not dead, as the world
supposed, but imbecile, and as it would be impolitic to have an imbecile
Pope he was hidden away here. I remonstrated at this betrayal of the
great secret, but in vain, and in we all went. Pi.us IX. was reclining on
a sort of altar-tomb,and my hope then was that he might not speak, and
so they might suppose it was only his marble effigy. So far from this he
got up and spoke to them, but no harm came of it as the gipsies did
not seem to know anything about who he was. Ultimately they all went
away, and I was left alone with him, which I did not half like;
presently he began to complain of being tired and begged me to help ,
him to lie down again, but he walked on to the far part of the crypt to
another raised tomb there was there, and in doing so wore himself out
and fell to pieces, and then I co.lled a maid to come and help me put.
him together with diamond cement, he talking to us all the time.
In :l.nother, three friends with whom I was talking suddenly trans_
formed themselves into three figures in elegant Japanese dress, and
actad a sort of burlesque or extravaganza on the dining-table; one
was a lady with a large high tortoiseshell comb in her back hair,the other
two were men and all had fans. They performed the most graceful evolu-
tions and dances the fan and the comb being, as it were, the ''motive'' of
the whole. They constantlyinterchangedthem,and now andthen.at stated
Digitized by Google
:236 Journal of Society for Paychicallleaearcl,. [Jan., 1885
:parts of the dance,the)all comb on the lady's head waved itseifbackwards
·and forwards with the movement of a fan.
In the third I thought I was in the dungeons of the Castle of
·St. Angelo, and was about to be put to torture. Suddenly a figure with
no clothing but a red tattered drapery appeared and spoke with the
guards, and I was immediately set free, and they carried him off
·instead. At first I would not consent to this, and then I guessed that it
was Christ, and I said, quite unconcernedly, "I know what always
happens in that sort of case. He will let them lock Him up in my place,
·and in the morning when they go for Him they will find that He has
·gone through the locked door." A friend, who then seemed for the first
time at my side, said, "Hush, if they hear you say that they will stop
.yOUl' going, and take you back," and he dragged me away. We
had not gone very far when I most grotesquely discovered that
I had left my wat.erproof behind, and said I must go back for it. My
friend strenuously opposed this and finally ran away, but I persisted
in going back, but woke before I reached the fortress. I need not say
that none of these have" come true."
Finally, I give for what it is worth, my testimony as an observer of
·coincidences and collector of folk-lore, to the unfailing accuracy of four
noted folk superstitions. 1. I never dreamt of silver without some
·distinct and separate vexation happening to me the next day over and
above the normal" evil thereof." (On the other hand, I never knew
·of any particular good luck follow dreaming of gold.) 2. I never saw
a winding-sheet on a candle without hearing of the death of some
person in whom I was interested immediately after. 3. I never
·observed the fire burn on one side without hearing of either a
death or a parting. 4. I never saw a cat wash over its ears
without rain following. These are indisputable facts; but I
do not consider them any more for that predictions or warn-
.jugs. They are simply coincidences of which science, in its present
.state, does not supply the connecting link. It is most probable that, in
..-the last case, the condition of the atmosphere exercises an irritating
influence on the delicate susceptibilities of the cat; and I feel no doubt
that something equally simple exists to connect the other instances,
lthough one may never know.
I cannot at this time refer to a collection [ made a short while ago of
-coincidences of simpler occurrences still, and ot late I have not taken
note of them; but I have found that it falls within the experience of most
·people with whom I have conversed on the subject, as well as my own
(though they had not paid attention to the matter until I have spoken
of it) that two events having apparently no possible connection will
.again and again coincide. Such as that two people who have nothing
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 237
to do with each other, should happen to calIon the same day time after
time; or that if one happens to be playing a certain piece of music when
a particula.r friend calls, one should be playing the same when he ca.lls
.again ever so long after, though one had no reason 'for playing it that
day. Coincidences of this nature might also be collected, and I believe
there are few persons who would have none to co»tribute.
I know many persons dismiss the consideration of these events with
such an expression as "What possible connection can there be between
'8. fire burning unevenly in one country and a person dying in another
country 1" I see none-any more than they; yet I am certain of my
facts nevertheless. One would similarly refuse credit to all conjuring
tricks if one did not know that they are not only really performed, but
n.re mostly of the most simple contrivance. "How can a wand held
over an egg make it dance 1" one might say, if one did not know that
the egg is blown out and cOllnected with the wand by a hair. Still more
might one, with a similar sentence, dismiss belief in half the combina-
tions of chemistry, cooking, and what have become the commonest
<combinations of all sorts.
I can fancy that some amateurs of the telepathy theory may see in
it a mode of accounting for some of the folk-omens*--one would like to
think that the inanimate things about tis sympathise with our interests
:and take upon them the office of telegraphy without the intervention of
hired clerks and wires; but it is not always the readiest solution
tltat is the right one. If telepathy existed to the extent of producing
these isolated but intimate coincidences, it must do so many other
things which observation proves with equal certainty that it does not do.
No, I think the science of coincidenc('s is yet far to seek.
R. H. BUSK.
[Our best thanks are due to Miss Busk for her interesting paper,
llut we presume Miss Busk would not deny that coincidences, such as
1Lre numbered 1, 2, 3 in the fourth para.gro.ph from the end of her paper,
belong to a wholly different category to coincidences such as apparitions
dt the moment of death, or the correspondence in position of numerous
* The local colouring and chronology of these folk·omens often supplies a
fantastic commmentary on their credibility. In some parts of England, for
instance, it is an unfailing omen of, I forget what, if the (coal) fire is found in
the morning alive from overnight. In wood·fire countries this is a matter of
everyday occurrence. Dreaming of gold, silver and copper have their connection
with degrees of good and bad luck: what about times and countries where
paper money, or cowries, &c., prevail! Dreaming of losing a tooth predicts the
loss of a friend. Since the general introduction of false teeth, will the dreamt
loss of a false tooth betoken the 1088 of a false friend!
Digitized by Google
238 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. fJan., 1885.
black lines seen in the spectrum of the sun with bright lines seen in
the spectra of certain terrestrial bodies. This latter correspondence is
(i) a general fact, i.e., of universal observation, but for all that it
might be a mere chance coincidence. We can, however, estimate the
probabilities of its being so, and such an estimate shows (ii) that mere
chance cannot account for it, but that there is p1'Qbably some cause-
common to both the dark and the bright lines. What that cause is does.
not here concern us, but what we wish to point out is that the coinci-
dences 1, 2, 3, cited by Miss Busk, must be shown to be something more-
than mere chance coincidence before they can be deemed worthy of
serious attention. At the same time we quite agree with Miss Busk
that as all our natural knowledge is derived from observation of coinci-
dences, or the consequents of certain antecedents, it is desirable to
keep a careful record of all recurring coincidences, however unrelated
they may appear to be.-ED. JOURNAL S.P.R.]
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
IX.
In the December number of this Journal I printed a synoptic view
of the divisions, classes, and groups in which our cases of the veridical
hallucinations of waking persons have been provisionally arranged.
And I must hope that the readers of these papers will from time to
time refer to that synopsis in order to understand at what point in our
sf'ries we have arrived, and what is the relation of the newly-cited cases
to those which have preceded them.
It will be seen that in the November number we dealt with Division
II., class G, group a; i.e., cases where a percipient, alone or virtually
alone, perceived a veridical, but unrecognisable, auditory phantasm.
Group {3. in the same class, to which we now come, includes cases in
other respects similar, but where the phantasm was tactile instead of
auditory.
In approaching tactile hallucinations we make in one way & decided
A.dvance as regards the evidential value of our narratives. For among
the mere delusive hRllucinations of sane persons imaginary touches are
much rarer than imaginary sounds. Slight spasms or cramps of the
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Journal of Society jor Psychical Re8earch. 239
muscles may indeed give the impression that the arm or leg is being
grasped from without. In Ii case recorded by Dr. Paterson (Edinburgh
Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 154), cramp of the triceps seems to
have been the exciting cause of D. hallucination which began with II.
clutching of the arm, and extended to imagined words and a figure.
In this case the subject was much predisposed to hallucination. The
cramp returned repeatedly, but did not. produce the same effect again.
The 'lrti)..P.O&, or quiverings of the subcutaneous muscles, from which,
as supernaturally caused, the ancients were wont to draw auguries,
belong to the tame category. Illusions based on any of these fibrillar
tremors would most naturally take the form of a supposed sudden grasp
or touch of a finger. If the sensation were at all prolonged, its true
nature would probably be recognised. There is no reason to suppose that
it would be accompanied with a feeling of change of temperature, as of
a specially cold touch or the like.
On the other hand, the tactile illusions of the insane (which merge
into internal sensations in various ways) are usually of a more violent
and painful character; as cuttings, tearings, gripings, and the like.
They seem generally referable to some actual nervous lesion, central or
peripheral, and suggest tho persistent attack of an enemy, not the touch
of a friend.The tactile illusions which sometimes precede an epileptic fi"'.;,
or accompany the onset of paralysis, are, of course, not likely to be
referred to any other cause.
The cases here referred to, it will be observed, are all cases of tactile
illusion-that is, of the misinterpretation of sensations which have a.
real objective basis. Pure tactile ,w,llucination, the imagination of a.
touch which is, in fact, a purely subjective phenomenon, seems a rarer
thing.
But on the other hand, sensations of being touched do not readily
shape themselves into a form clearly evidential of telepathic action.
There are five ways in which such action might conceivably be
suggested.
(1) The touch might leave an abnormal mark, as alleged in the
Beresford case.
(2) The touch might be so characteristic as to be clearly recognisable
as that of some absent person.
(3) It might seem specially to invite attention, as by repetition or
insistance.
(4) It might be symbolical of death, as by extreme coldness.
(5) It might be accompanied by some auditory or visual phantasm.
The first of these categories is excluded from our consideration as in
Digitized by Google
240 Jorwnal of Society/or Psycltical Resea,·elt. [Jan., 1885.
volving an action on ponderable matter, which is outside the region of
pure phantasm, with which these papers are concerned.
The second category will come on for consideration later, when we
are dealing with recognisable phantasms. In this class we are confining
ourselves to forms of phantasm too rudimentary for definite recognition.
Of the t/tird category we have several examples. I select 8.
narrative which includes also some touch of symbolism, as the hand is
felt as cold. The incident, however, is too remote to allow us to press
a detail of this kind. For so remote a. story the evidence is good, as
the incident was both a noticeable and a simple one, and therefore, the
less likely to have been imagined or distorted. The Admiralty confirm
the fact that Captain Heywood was in command of the Montague at the
date referred to ; but for" Master of Marines" we should apparently
read "Captain of Marines."
From Lady Belcher, known to F. W. H. M.
DEAR SIR,-A note from Miss Keighley yesterday morning reminds me
that I ought some time since to have complied with a request of Miss A.
Swanwick's, that as you are much interested in those singularcommunications
which sometimes seem to take place between living and departing beings, she
wished me to repeat in writing for you a well authenticated story I had told
her.
During the great French war, when Napoleon I. was overrunning Holland
and after the unfortunate Walcheren expedition, our :8.eet was ordered to the
ScheIdt, I believe in the severe winter of 1813. The sailors and marinesfrom
the various ships were landed in parties to man and defend the dykes. So
severe was the cold that long wooden sheds were erected, and large fires kept
up for the watch parties.
All the officers in tum landed to keep the men to their posts.
On one night when my father, Captain Peter Heywood, landed with his
men from the Montague, the line of battle ship he commanded, and the watch
had been set, the officers stretched themselves down on some mattresses, the
first lieutenant near him, then the Master of Marines. All was quiet, when
the last mentioned officer cried out that some one had laid a cold hand on his
cheek! Silence was ordered. Again in a few minutes he made the same
complaint and challenged the lieutenant, who peremptorily ordered silence.
A third time he made the same outcry, jumped up and rushed from the
spot in terror. The whole party were thoroughly roused, and my father
considered the circumstance so peculiar that he noted it, with the date and
the precise hour at which it had occurred.
Weeks after, when the despatches and letters arrived from England, the
Master of Marines received the news of his father's death, and the hour of
his departure, which tallied exactly with the note which Captain Heywood
had made. Up to the period of my dear father's death I have heard him
Di~itized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Jou1'naloj Society for PsycMcal Research. 241
mention the fact, but he never reasoned on it. He possessed a calm judg-
ment and a very religious mind.-I remain, dear sir, yours very truly,
DIANA. BELCHER.
25, Cumberland Terrace, Regent's Park.
April, 1884.
It so happens that in other cases which we possess where there is
the symbolism of a cold hand, the pressure of a heavy corpse, &c., the
agent is recognised; so we shall come upon them under, a later group.
But I should not be surprised to come OIl some case where the sensation
of chilling touch or lifeless pressure suggests the idea of death, without
any accompanying identification of the dying person.
Passing on then to thefiftl& category above mentioned, I proceed to
give an incident where the touch is not only repeated, but conjoined
with a spoken summons.
From Mrs. Hancock, Penarth Lodge, Stoke Bishop, Bristol, a member of
the Society of Friends, known to E. R. Pease.
In my Northern-Irish home, I received a letter on the 7th November,
1865, from my brother in WarwickBhlre, saying that my mother was ill, and
he wished I would go and see her. I started the same evening by Belfast
and Fleetwood. I had been several hours in my berth, on the Irish Channel,
and was half asleep, when I was startled by feeling a hand grasp my shoulder
and a voice say, in a. loud whisper. "Come quickly." I rose up and sat
looking round the cabin, but could see no one. I called to the stewardess,
but she was fast asleep, and so were all the other ladies. I again lay down,
but not to sleep, and in a very short time, not 20 minutes afterwards, tho
lIalIle pressure was put on my shoulder and the same words were distinctly
uttered close. to my ear, "Come quickly." I again cnlled loudly to the
stewardess and told her to light the lamp, for I was sure that some one must
have been standing by me. She declared that no one had been in the cabin,
and all around was so still and quiet. I reached the station at hnlf-past 12
at noon, when my brother met me. He said, "All is over, my mother
passed away at 4 this morning."
I ought to have stated that when I called to the stewardess and made her
light the lamp, immediately after I heard the voice and felt the hand on my
shoulder the second time, I then asked her to tell me what o'clock it
was, and she said "Four o'clock." 1 looked at my own watch and it was
the same. I being an only daughter and my mother having been a widow
the last five years of her life, she was much wrapped up in me and in my
children, and the tie between us was of no ordinary kind. I have alway"
looked upon this as a direct voice from herself, just as she was dying and
passing into the spiritual world.
(MRS.) Lucy HANCOCK.
Penarth Lodge, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
April 14tk, 1884.
In reply to your question, whether I have at any other time, besides the
one described, "had an experience of the kind, i.e., fancied I heard or felt a
Digitized by Google
242 Journal of Societyfo,' P8ychical Research. [Ja.n., 1885.
-----------------
human presence when no one was present,It I havc to Bay that I never did.-
Lucy HANCOCK. .
J'Ulle 26th.
Now although Mrs. Hancock knew that her mother was dangerously
ill it would be difficult to ascribe this phantom to expectant imaginat~on,
since when it came, and ca.me repeatedly, Mrs. Hancock was so far
from recognising it as abnormal, or associating it with the dying person,
that she called twice to the stewardess for protection against the sup-
posed intruder. The call, indeed, was a whi8pered one, so that the
tones which give character to a voice would not be ht'.ard; yet one
might have supposed that here, if ever, the summons might have been
recognised by one who was in fact already hastening to obey it. .
But it would be quite fallacious to expect that either the percipient's
recognition of any phantasm, or his degree of alarm at any phantasm,
could be predicted from the nature of the phantasm itself. Both
recognition and alarm depend mainly on the percipient's subjective
state II.t the moment, the amount of attention which he can rapidly bring
to bear on the phenomenon, and the explanation ofit which first occurs
to him. It has sometimes been said that the apparitions which people
say they see can be no more than vague fancies, for whc:n they really do
see something which they take for an apparition (as a man dressed in
a sheet, &c.) they faint with fear or die outright. This saying contains
a certain element of truth, along with much over·statement. It is
probably true that the fictitious phantom often gives more alarm than
the real one, just as a person who tries to startle one is more likely to
startle one than n person who merely presents himself, or tries, at most,
to attract one's attention. The fictitious phantom chooses someone
whom he knows to be already in a fright, and does his best to frighten
him still further. The real phantom comes to some one who is not think-
ing about anything of the kind andmerely tries (or seems to try) to make
him perceive who it is that has come to him. Moreover, the fictitious
phantom takes advantage of his spectator's prepossessions in a way
which the real one generally does not. It is dt'ad people in sheets that
the ghost-fearing world stands in awe of ; not people who are believed
to be living, and who appear in their ordinary clothes. Now the true
death-wraith, as we shall see as we proceed, is for the most part what
may be called studiously commonplace in his appearance. He does not
affect bizarrerie or aim at sensation of any kind; in fact, to speak
seriously, he is probably himself for the most part only a sensation,
wLich externalises itself not in the strangest but in the most familiar
aspw.:t.
Thus far, then, thereisa certain truth in the assertion that the sham
gh:;st terrifies more than the hon4fide one. But he certainly does not do
Digitized by Google
Journal ~f Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 243
this, as was further asserted,by the mere fact that in his case there really
is something to see or feel, while in the other case there is not. In the first
place, people confuse real percepts, phantasmal quasi-percepts, and mere
.subjective sensations in all kinds of ways. A great poet once told me
that in youth he sometimes went into the dining·room when it was dark,
.and walked up and down making verses. One evening, whilst thus
employed he su<idenly felt something clutch his leg. Startled for the
moment, he rapidly argued with himself that the feeling must have
been a mere illusion, and continued his walk and his ode. Afterwards
his younger brother confessed to having hidden under the table and
caught his leg to frighten him.
On the other hand, when phantasmal touches are felt, as in the case
-of Mrs. Hancock, they are very often taken to be the touch of some real
intruder. When phantasmal figures are seen they are very often
.addressed as living persons, and even pursued for some distance, and if
Tthey vanish during the pursuit the sensation which they leave behind
them is less often one of terror than of mere annoyance and bewilder-
ment.
Equally mistaken, therefore, on the other hand, are those who talk of
-that indescribable awe which accompanies any contact with the super-
natural ;-justifying their own agreeable shudder at a ghost-story by
.attempting (so to speak) to deduce it from a cosmicallaw. It will be well
to get rid of all these apriori fancies, and to recognise the fact that what
.a man thinks a phantom is when he sees it, or what he feels if he takes it
for a phantom indeed, depends (as in the case of any other startling
incident) much less on Itny definite rule as to the nature of the incident
itself than on his own condition of nerves and brain at the moment.
How widely this susceptibility to slwck may vary in the normal states of a
normal individual, anyone who is not grossly lymphatic can easily see
for himself. It is enough to note the extremely different conditions-
·of heavy apathy or alert alarm-into which a sudden arousal from
healthy sleep may summon us. I have been awoke by a mouse, and
have started up with every sense on the stretch. I have been awoke
by an earthquake, and have fallen asleep again without making a single
reflection. .
Class G, group 'Y.-Our next group consists of rudimentary, un-
recognisable visual phantasms. Of these we have but few. We have,
indeed, a good many cases where the phantom is unrecognised, though
definite enough to have been capable of recognition; but these
belong to a later clasa. In the present group we include only such
phantasms as a ball of fire, or a vague shadow. Cases of this kind
(which belonged to class F) were given in the Journal for October,
1884. Such a phantasm as a ball of fire seems to point strongly to-
Digitized by Coog
244 Journal Qf Society.for P8ycMcai Re8earch. [Jan., 188!')0.
wards the explanation by telepathic impact,-it looks, that is to say,.
like the result of some vaguo shock to the brain rather than like the·
presence of any objective entity. But here again our subject is more,
complex than at first sight appears. For just as raps, whicb. we might·
have classed merely as one of the simplest forms of externalised. brain-
shock,have been seen to slide insensibly into theraps termedspiritualistic,.
even so do these" balls of fire" slide insensibly into the so-ca.lled corpse-
candle,or moving lightalleged to beseen,withvarious symbolical modifica-
tions, as a premonition or announcement of death. For instance, we have a.
case where, at the moment of a friend's death, our informant saw a small
light move across the room and pause above a chest of dmwers, on.
which chest he then heard three raps given. Now from one point of
view this might be merely the externalisation, to sight and sound, of a.
telepathic brain-shock. But, on the other hand, these small anet
momentary phenomena contain in miniature the whole question of corpse-
candles and spiritualistic seances. Once more, therefore, we must tunl.
aside from a complete investigation of a special class of phenomena,
because the task would carry us outside the limits of the present.,
work.
Of unrecognisable 8/w,dow8 or ill-defined forms we have, I think,
only two satisfactory cases. In one of these a dark shadow bends over
the percipient's bed, and utters words in a voice which is not recognised.
In the other case the quasi-percept is oddly called " a bright shadow;'"
explained as an ill-defined luminous appearance (occurring ill the day-
time) of about the size and shape of the child whose death at the same·
moment seemed to have generated the phantasm.
Buthere wemay pass on to the cases where the phantasm is recognised,.
class H of our synoptic scheme. _<\nd first of group a under this class,
simple recognised auditory phantasms.
This group is a large one; and as might be expected, the great:.
bulk of it consists of cases where the percipient hears his own name.
called, generally more than once, and in a tone of anxiety or appeal.
" George, George," "Mother, mother," "Mary, Mary," "Mamma,
Mamma," "called by my name in soft low accents," "in a tone of mental
distress," "in an anxious and suffering voice," such are the calls and the-
tones of which these percipients speak. It is noticeable in thefirst
place, that this audition of a. name is a form which a. mere delusive
hallucination readily assumes, and for that very reason, in our view,
a form in which a vague telepathic impact would be likelyto externalise.
itself; and in the 8econd place, that the actual or mental utterance of &.
beloved name is one of the commonest ways in which a moment of
culminant anxiety or distress finds its expression; that is to say, it is.
likely that many "agents" in some critical moment would project thein'
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] JOUf"nal of Society jOf' P8ychical Re8earck. 245
telepathic influence in this special form, and it is also likely that a
vague telepathic impact would often present itself in this special form
to the percipient's senses.
And in a somewhat similar way we may explain one or two '.lases.
where the sound heard at the moment of death is identified as the
footstep of the agent, or the rattle of the gig in which he is expected
to return home. All the sounds belonging to such a return have no.
doubt long since become an established cerebral element, for agent and.
percipient alike, and easily revocable into the consciousness of either.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
It is proposed to print in the JO'IJh'naI a considerable part of th",
evidence received by the Society for Psychical Research from month to
month. This has already been done to some extent; but the great
bulk of the cases sent to us have hitherto been printed on separate
slips, at the expense of a Member of the Society. These slips, .with a
few exceptions, are open ~o the inspection of Members and Associates at
14, Dean's Yard. For convenience of reference, the cases now to be
printed in the Journal will be lettered and numbered continuously
with the slips already printed. No opinion as to the evidenti&:l value
of the cases quoted is implied by the fact that they are printed in the
Journal. The series from which specimens will be given will consist of
L-Phantasms of the Living.
G-Ghosts, or Phantasms of the Dead.
M-Mesmeric and Clairvoyant Cases.
The numeration of the slips merely indicates their collector 01"
editor. In each series the sequence is as follows :-
No. 1-300, and 1,000-1,300 Edited by Mr. Podmore.
" 300-600, and 1,300-1,600 "Mr. Gurney.
" 600-900 Mr. Myers.
" 900-1,000 Mr. Hodgson.
" 1,600-1,700 Prof. Barrett.
In the G series, Nos. 1-100, are edited by Mr. Pease.
We begin with a group from the G series. The G cases are further-
classmed as :
Digitized by Google
'246 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earc~. [Jan., 1885.
Transitional, i.e. : Where the phantasm occurs soon after death.
d re 1 IS e to aun some oca y, or
Fixed local } Whe 't' all ged h t I lit
Fix:: family: some family or group of persons.
Motived: Where it is alleged to appear in order to effect some
definite purpose.
Occasional: Where the appearance is isolated, and apparently pur-
poseless.
G.-637-Transitional.
Sent to F. W. H. M. by the Bishop of Carlisle.
From the Rev. G. M. Tandy, Vicar of West-Ward, near Wigton,
Cumberland, formerly of Loweswater.
When at Loweswater, I one day called upon a friend, who said,
~'You do not see many newspapers; take one of those lying there." I
accordingly took up a newspaper, bound with a wrapper, put it into my
pocket and walked home.
In the evening I was writing, and, wanting to refer to a book, went
into another room where my books were. I placed the candle on 8.
.ledge of the bookcase, took down a book and found the passage I
wanted, when, happening to look towards the window, which was oppo-
:site :to the bookcase, I saw through the window the face of an old
friend whom I had known well at Cambridge, but had not seen for 10
years or more, Canon Robinson,(of the Charity and School Commission).
I was so sure I saw him that I went out to look for him, but could find
no trace of him.
I went back into the house and thought I would take a look at my
newspaper. I tore off the wrapper, unfolded the paper, and the first
piece of news that I saw was the death of Canon Robinson!
GEO M. TANDY,
Vicar of West-Ward.
Mr. Tandy has had no other hallucinations.
G.-638-Fixed Local.
The writer of the following case, Mrs. L., is known to me. Mrs. L.
has read this to Mr. L., and he confirms it. I inspected the locality with
Mrs. L., on November 15th, 1884, and concur with the description given
below. F. W. H. M.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1885.] Jou"nal of Soc'jety/1)1' P8ychical Re8earch. 241
We were walking home from Richmond, my husband and I, one
bright July day about half-past five, having ordered the boat to meet
us and take us up to our own steps.
Between Richmond and Twickenham, on the Surrey side, is a
:splendid avenue of large trees; between the avenue and the river is a
long and wide stretch of beach, and at the Twickenham end the ground
is very open, and one sees the curve of the river and glimpses of some
houses at Twickenham and Teddington; there is no bank or tree to
intercept the view, and anyone walking along the towing path can be
seen for a long distance.
When a little way down the avenue, at the third tree, perhaps, a
man passed stealthily behind me, to my left side, and went outside the
trees-I was walking the furthest from the river. Two or three times
he passed me thus, always in the same stealthy manner, as if not wish-
ing to be seen.
I did not draw my husband's attention to him, because, although
the last man to commence a quarrel, he never submitted to an imper-
tinence, and this stranger's movements appeared so spy-like.
I did not know my husband had seen him till he passed the third
time; then R. said :-
.. What is that fellow dodging about for 1 the avenue is open to all,
why does he not keep in or out of it 1he appears anxious to know what
we are talking about; as it does not concern him, we will go out into
the open."
We were then about the seventh or eighth tree down. As he spoke
he stepped on to the open beach, and gave me his hand to help me over
some obstruction in the path, a fallen Qranch, if I remember rightly.
Both these movements were made in less time than it would take me to
speak of them.
As I put my hand in his, I looked round, and saw the stranger stand-
ing between th~ trees. It was the first full look we had, and I said, "He
looks as if he had stepped out of an old picture! "
We could see only his boots, his cloak, and hat. The boots were
peculiar, high, and falling over at the knee, his cloak· large and round,
and thrown over his left shoulder, in the Spanish fashion, and his hat,
apparently a s~ft felt, had a very wide drooping border,and was worn so
much on one side we saw no face.
We both distinctly remember that in all the times we saw him that
day, no face was visible. His whole costume was of one tone, and that
of a dusty cobweb is the only thing I can liken it to.
Digitized by Google
248 Journal of &cietyfor P8ychical Re8eal·cn. [Jan., 1885.
We stood looking at him, I wondering if he would resent my
husband's speech, but he made no movement, and I put my hand in R.'s
to step into the open. .AJ! my husband's fingers closed on mine, he
started, and as I looked up to see the cause I saw his eyes fixed
steadily on the open space at the remote end of the avenue.
There, clearly defined by the bright background of the towing path
and the river, stood the figure that, less than an instant before, was by
our side, and which we certainly thought to be that of a fellow creature
(of rather ill-bred manners, utterly inconsistent with the decided
dignity of his appearance ).
Had he been shot out of a gun, he could not have gone faster.
The distance I have since measured: it is [about 150 yards*] ; the time
occupied in traversing it I could not have counted a dozen in, however
rapidly.
Now comes the most peculiar part of our experience, that which has
made me very chary of telling it, for fear of ridicule.
When we saw the figure standing out there on the open ground,
we were simply perplexed; no sensation of fear, or suspicion of the
supernatural, entered our minds. We walked towards him with our
eyes fixed on him.
There stood the figure, clearly defined, till we got within a certain
distance; then it changed. It is so difficult to describe what did
take place; the only way I can suggest it even is thus: You have seen
a thick volume of smoke come out of a railway engine and gradually
become thinner and thinner as it hovers over the ground, till you see
through it the objects behind.
That is what took place. The figure stood there still, but, though
it did not lose its shape, it gradually became .transparent, till we saw
the river and the bank and the distant trees through it! Still it waa
there. Then it got fainter and fainter, till there was not the least sug-
gestion of it left; nothing but the large, bright, open space, without a
single object behind which anyone could have hidden.
We stood still, and I saw our boat coming. I got into it, feeling
rather" da.zed," like one does when waking from a too heavy sleep.
As my husband pulled past the place where the figure had stood, for
the first time a feeling of horror came over me, and I said, "What.
could it have been 1"
He answered, "God only knows, darling, perha.ps we never shall."
And so, I suppose, we must leave it.
M. R. L.
* Distance not yet precisely obtained.-F.W.H.M.
Digitized by Google
Ja.u.,l885.J Journal qf Society for P8ychical Research,. 249
G.-639-Fixed Local.
Sent by the Rev. Professor Sayce to F. W'. H. M.
About midway between Bath and Bristol is the village of TimsburY'
'The principal house in the place is one which was built during the reign
-of Henry VIII., and was known in the time of my boyhood as The
-Court. When I was 12 years of age my father moved to the neighbour-
1100d of Bath, and was shortly afterw';rds requested by an old friend to
ascertain whether there was a large house, with grounds attached, in
the locality to be let furnished. Timsbury Court was the only one which
could be heard of, and as it seemed exactly the kind of place that was
wanted, Mr. B. agreed to take it. With his wife and daughter, and a
staff of servants he brought with him, he accordingly took up his
quarters in the house at the beginning of October. Neither he nor any
of his household knew any of the inhabitants of the village, or were in
any way acquainted with the neighbourhood.
The following December my brother (who was two years younger
than myself) and I went on a visit to our friends at Timsbury. As we
were the first guests they had received we were given what was con·
sidered the best bedroom in the hOllse to sleep in. It was called the
Drab Room, because the walls were hung with drab tapestry, and was
approached by a corridor which branched off from the head of the stair-
case. The nearest room to it was occupied by Miss B. Opposite the
door \Vas a mullioned window. Between the door and the window was
th!' entrance to a recess in the wall which was fitted up ilS a dressing
room.
As my lungs were delicate, and the weather was cold, I was not
a.llowed to leave the house during the week that I spent in it, and a fire
was kept burning in the bedroom. On the Thurs~ay afternoon I had
been reading a book on mesmerism,- a very undesirable one for a
weakly boy to get hold of, and when it became too dark for me to read
any longer without a light, I went upstairs to prepare for dinner. While
I was standing in the dusk before the looking-glass on the table in front
of the window, brushing my hair, I happened to glance towards my right,
and there distinctly saw the figure of a man standing at the entrance of
the dressing-room; about a yard distant from me, with his eyes fixed upon
myself. What he looked like I will state preliently. The suddenness of
the appearance startled me exceedingly, and I rushed downstairs into
the drawing-room in an agony of terror, declaring that I had seen a
" ghost." I was well laughed at for my folly, and told that I must not
read any more books on mesmerism. By the time dinner was over I
had become reassured, and soon ceased to think any more about what I
bad seen.
Digitized by Google
250 Journal of SocietJl .for PS!Jchical Research. [Jan.,l88S.
The following Saturday night I chanced to awake when the fire,
which had been blazing brightly when I went to sleep, now cast only a.
slight 1lickering light over the room, just sufficient to disclose the out-
lines of things but no more. I then saw distinctly So human figure com&
out of the dressing-room and walk by the side of the bed. My brother,
who was sleepingon that side of the bed, happened to be awake also,
and saw the figure as well as mysiIf. I asked him who it was. " Only
Lizzie" (that is Miss B.), he said, and satisfied with the answer I turned
round and fell asleep again. My brother saw the figure pass to the foot
of the bed and there lost sight of it. In the morning I mentioned to Mrs.
B. that her daughter had been in our room during the night, but no,
further notice was taken of it at the time. I must not forget to add
that on several occasions my brother and I were much disturbed by
strange noises which we ascribed to the wind.
The following spring two young ladies who were on a visit to the
house, slept in the Drab Room. Early on Sunday morning they awoke·
suddenly, and saw a figure come out of the dressing-room and walk to
the foot of the bedstead, where it stood looking at them. They were
greatly alarmed and covered their faces with the bed clothes, but the
next morning determined to 5&y nothing from fear of ridicule. In fact
.they did not mention what they had seen until some months after-·
wards.
In the course of the summer the room was occupied by Mrs. Hb.,.
a lady of decidedly unimaginative character. On the Sunday mo~g
after her arrival she appeared at breakfast looking pale and unwell,
and, after breakfast, asked Mrs. B. if she might have her room changed.
Mrs. B. of course assented, but pressed her visitor to tell her what was,
the matter with the room, as she fancied she might have been annoyed
by rats or something similar. After a great deal of hesitation Mrs..
Rh. confessed that though she knew her hostess would think her
extremely foolish, she felt convinced that she had seen something
supernatural that morning. She had been aroused from sleep, she
said, by hearing the clock strike 4, and just afterwards saw a,
human figure come from the dressing-room and pass to the foot of the
bed, where it stooped down, so as to be hidden from view. She
thought someone was playing her a trick, and jumped out of bed t()
see who it was; she searched the room and found nothing. Mrs. B.
naturally in her mind ascribed her guest's apparition to a nightmare"
but nothing would persuade the latter that she had not actually seen
.it with waking eyes.
In the early part of September, Mr. B. received a visit from his.
son-in-law, Mr. H. and his wife, who like the five visitors before
Digitized by Google
Jan., 18S5.] Journal of Society jor P8ychical Research. 251
------
them, also occupied the Drab Room. I heard the following story
from Mrs. H.'s own lips. On the ThurSday night after their arrival,.
she was sleeping on the side of the bed nearest the dressing-room, and
was aroused from her sleep by feeling a cold clammy hand laid all
across her face. It prevented her from opening her eyes, though she
felt that if she could do so she would see something" uncanny." She
kicked violently and awoke her husband, who told her she was suffer-
ing from nightmare, that was all. Mrs. H. was convinced tllat it was.
otherwise, and refused to sleep another night on that side of the bed.
The following night Mr. H. was prevented from getting any sleep by
an attack of toothache, and in the morning again began to laugh at his.
wife, telling her that if "there were a ghost in the room he must have'
seen it as he had been awake all night." The toothache disappeared
in the course of the morning, and the following (Saturday) night Mr. H.
slept additionally soundly in consequence of his want of sleep the night
before. Suddenly he was startled from his slumbers by a cold clammy
hand placed upon his forehead. He sprang up and saw a brown-looking
figure, crouched up, hieing away from him into the dressing-room. He
felt his pulse, which was beating normally, then he got out of bed,
poured some "!Vater into the basin, and plunged both his face and his
hands into it. Then he returned to bed, and sitting up in it looked
at his watch, and found it was a little after 4 o'clock. At ten
minutes past 4 the figure came out of the dressing-room, and stood
close to his pillow, so close indeed that he might have touched it
had he chosen. This time time the figure was erect, azid he was able
to measure its height against the window-frame, from which he dis-
covered that it was not quite his own height. The figure was that of
a man, dressed in a dark coat, which was fastened by gold
buttons at the throat and wrist. The hair was dark and
parted in the middle, the face pale and smooth, and the nose of the
Greek type. In both face and dress the figure was precisely the same
as that which I had seen. Mr. H. deliberated whether he should speak;
while doing so he coughed, and immediately afterwards the figure
melted before his eyes" like a mist." After this further sleep was out
of the question, and Mr. H. agreed with his wife that they had better
change their room. As the next day, however, was Sunday, they
thought they would pass one more night there. In the course of this
Mrs. H. was awakened by "horrible shrieks, groMS and sighs," that.
proceeded from some part ()f the room. Her husband was awake, and
she asked him what it meant. He replied that he had been listening
to those sounds for more than an hour. Then he sat up and said, "In
the name of God I command you to be silent." After this they heard
no more.
Digitized by Google
'252 Journal of Society for P8ycldcnl Research. [Jan., 1885.
The story soon became known in the village, and our friends then
learned that the Drab Room had been held to be haunted from time
immemorial, though they could hear of no legend to account for the
'Supposed fact. In the time of their predecessors it had been closed in
consequence of the belief about it. So well-known in the village, in-
deed, was the belief, that some of the old people, as it turned out,
refused to venture near the gates of the house itself after dal'k. Our
friends remained there only a year or two after the discovery, as their
'Servants became frightened and were accordingly disinclined to stay
with them.
A. H. SAyeE.
Mrs. Saxby, l\fount Elton, Clevedon·, sends us an extract from a
letter written January 12th, 1860, by Miss Lily Boyd, the Miss B.
of Professor Sayce's narrative. After describing the appearance to Mrs.
Rh. in much the same way as Professor Sayce describes it, Miss Boyd
continues :-
The next instance that has occurred, since we occupied the house, is
more remarkable still. Mr. Sayee's two little boys slept together in the
haunted room, when they stayed with us. On their return home their
mother said, "You must have been very happy. Had you a pleasant visit 1"
They replied they were very happy all day, but" they .did not think it
was kind in Lily to dress up in white and come to their bed at night, and
that they did not like it at all." These children had never heard of the
Timsbury Ghosts, and never speak of what they saw there as anything but
" Lily dressed up."
They told their nurse that" one night Lily went into their room, dressed.
up in white, to frighten them, but they were so sure it was Lily that they
determined not to take any notice of her, as they were very tired." 'Vas not
this most curious?
Frederick Holt, my brother-in-law, was all but frightened out of his
senses, by an apparition which he saw in the haunted room. He had been
lying awake for more than hour, one night, or rather very early one
morning, when, from the corner whence it usually issues, where the dressing-
closet door opens into the bedroom, a figure appeared, and slowly passed the
bed. Frederick felt his pulse and his heart, in order to ascertain
whether he was any way excited or fevered, as he thought, at
first, it must be an illusion, but his pulse was quite steady. In
about 10 minutes the figure returned, with its hands upraised, and with the
most agonised expression of countenance that could be described. Mrs. F.
Holt was asleep by her husb,md one night when the apparition appeared to
him. He says he did not awaken her at first for fear of frightening her, and
"that when the figure returned he felt completely paralysed. He had himself
been awakened that night by what felt to be a hand pressed tightly over his
Digit
.Jan.,1885.] Journal qf Society /ot· P8ychical &seal·cll. 253
face, and he then saw an elderly gentleman with a fine line of face passing
:from his bed. He was dressed in bro,m, in the old style, with a long
rounded-oft" waistcoat, and a light neckcloth which was fastened with a.
brooch or pin. He passed from the dressing-closet, at one side of the room,
to a kind of. wardrobe-closet for hanging things in a.t the other. Mr. Holt
put his hand upon his own pulse to see if anything was the matter with him,
.and counted 80 beats, ",hen the old gentleman came out of the hanging-
·closet again, and again passed by his bed, but this time it stopped, raised up
ita arms, and, clasping its hands together, laid them down, pressing them on
the bed in which Mr. and Mrs. Holt were lying. It then passed on again to
the dressing-closet. .
Mr. Holt then told his wife what he had seen. Mrs. Holt saw nothing,
but they both of them heard loud whisperings and voices all about the room.
Neither of them could understand what the voices said. They described the
.room "as seeming all alive with voices."
These two a.::counts are quite independent, and it will be seen that
Professor Sayee's recollection, at the distance of a quarter of a century•
.corresponds pretty closely with the contemporary account.
The Hon. Secretary of the "Haunted House" Committee informs us
:that there is a house now to let, near the Sussex coast, which is said on
good authority to be haunted. 'I'he rent is about .£100 per annum. He
can send the usual particulars, and also the evidence for the abnormal
occurrences, to any member of the Society who might wish to take the
.house.
Digitized by Google
254 Journal Qf Society lor Psychical Rese.orcll. [Jan., 1885.
EXPERIMENTS WITH THE MAGNETIC NEEDLE.
To THB SECRETARY OF THB SOCIBTY FO]t PSYCHICAL 'RESEARCH.
New Athenreum Club, S.W.
30th Decembe1', 1884.
SIR,-ProfeBSor Barrett has told me that certain experiments which I
have been making with the magnetic needle would possess an interest for the-
members of the Society for Psychica.l Research, and he has suggested that
I should furnish a report of them. But for his suggestion I should havo<
hesitated to do so, as I greatly doubt whether these experiments have any
real bearing on things psychical as distinguished from things physical.
My attention was first drawn to the subject by reading Reichenbach's.
account of his experiments with sensitives, and also the account given in
Zollner's Transcendental PhYSW8 of the effect produced on the magnetic needle-
by the finger of Dr. Slade. It seemed to me unlikely that two such ob-
servers as Reichenbach and Zollner should be completely deceived in theh·
observations, and I thought I would try for myself what effcct could be pro-
duced on the needle by the human organism. Of course, a merely negative-
result would have proved nothing; but any positive result might be expected..
to throw some light on the phenomenon. And as I had,cultivated mesmerism
with some success, I thought it quite possible that I might produce some effect.
I accordingly purchascd a very ordinary compasswith a glass cover, and found..
that by pointing the finger at the needle covered or uncovered no effectwhat-
everwas produced. Itthen occurred to me thatin all the recorded experiments
the compass had apparently been under glass, and it struck me as possible that.
the glass itself might have had something to do with the results obtained by
others. Instead, therefore, of moving the finger near the glass, I moved it in
contact with it. The result was that the needle, after a while, adhered to
the glass by one of its points. In this there is nothing extraordinary. The
needle will readily adhere to such a non-conductor when it has been charged..
with electricity by friction. Itis in what followed upon this thatthe interest of
the experiment consists. If now, when the needle was thus adhering to the
glass, the finger was pointed at it from a little distance, the needle most;
certainly moved, and always in one direction-that, namely, away from the
tiagdr. This was so far interesting that it seemed to throw some light on the
probable, or at least possible, genesis of the belief which connects (so-called)
animal with mineral nlagnetism. This was probably the phenomenon which
had been observed by Reichenbach and Zollner, and the poBBibility of which
had been so strenuously denied by other physicists. But whether this
phenomenon proved the contention of Reichenbach and Zollner was to my
mind a very different matter. Unfortunately, I am not myself a physicist.
and I feel the awkwardneBS of handling a subject with which I am but super-
ficially acquainted; butI certainly think that the phenomenon is in some
way due to the difference in temperature between the glass and the finger,
and that it comes, therefore, under the known laws of heat and electricity.
But this is a matter on which trained physicists should be able to speak Witll
authority.
I repeated this experiment many times, and found that the slightest
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1885.) Journal Cit Society fa/" Pd./lcltical Researcn. 255
dampness on the glass prevented the phenomenon-a fact which seemed
to ally it with statical electricity. I then once more made an attempt to
affect the uncovered needle. I fitted up a little a.pparatus by which the
naked needle was very delicately poised, and I fixed a piece of glass
perpendicularly by the side of it, at about the distance of half an inch from
it. I then found that, if by a slight friction on the glass I brought the
needle into a state of oscillation-which was easy enough-I could then
produce the phenomenon by pointing my finger at the naked needle. I
presume that this is practically the same experiment as the other, but it
8eems more remarkable.
Two or three details should be noticed in conclusion. One is that the
needle is always repelled, whether the finger is hotter or colder than the
glass; for I have tried the effect of all possible changes of temperature.
Another is that the effect can be conveyed very well through wood, but
badly through metal, and not at all through india-rubber. Another point
to notice is that the repulsion, under favourable circumstances, is strong
enough to overcome the attraction of the magnet for iron (of course I took
care to see that the iron had not been magnetised). Once more, the finger
was clearly not magnetic as it repelled equally either end of the needle.
Finally, I fancied that something at least depended on my own physical state.
Sometimes a single pass on the glass would make the needle lively; at other
times 30 passes would produce no effect, and this when the glass was perfectly
dry. The experiment, as arule, succeeded best soon after I hl\d taken a meal,
and at night better than in the day. This again would seem to connect the
phenomenon with heat, it being a fact that the temperature of the body is
higher after feeding, and also after intellectual exertion such as one naturally
makes of an evening by reading or writing.
I should be very glad if the publication of this report should lead to the
complete elucidation of anything which at present may seem mysterious in
the behaviour of the magnetic needle.-I am, your very faithful,
A. EUBULE-EvANS.
[If the facts are as our correspondent describes I cannot account for them
on physical grounds, although the pointing of the finger might discharge
the electrified surface of the glass, and allow the electrically attracted needle
to resume its north and south position, which would appear like repulsion by
the finger. But this explanation appears to be negatived by the following
letter I subsequently received.--ED• .JOURNAL S. P. R.J
31st December, 1884.
SIR,-After two years of incredulity I am to-day convinced that
Reichenbach and Zollner were correct in affirming that the magnetic needle
could be moved by something emanating from the human finger; although
only last night I sent a report of my experiments to the Secretary of the
Society for Psychical Research, and in this report I stated that I was by no
means convinced by my own experiments.
This morning there is a hard frost here which has hardly ever been the
case when I have been experimenting. I mounted a small needle on a very
256 Journal of Society lor P8yckical Be8earck. [Jan., 1885..
delicate pivot without any covering, and pointed a finger of my right handa.t;
it. No'result. It then occurred to me to point the left hand index finger-
a thing I had never done before-and, 10 ! the needle was distinctly repelled.
Being by nature very sceptical in such mattera, I thought the motion might
be caused bymy breath, so I bandaged my mouth and nostrils, and held in my
breath. There was no doubt about it-the needle became strangely perturbed,
being at first attracted and then repelled by the finger. A curious circum-
stancewas that I could effect this onlyat the south-seeking pole. I tried to affect
the north-seeking pole with the right hand, but without result. I can throw
no light on the cause of the phenomenon, but of its reality I am now at last.
certain. Whether I shall be able t{) repeat it I do not know, as I have tried
so often before in vain to produce it. • • •
Since writing the foregoing I have successfully repeated the experiment at
least a dozen times, but the power has now (for the time at least) gone again.
A. EUBULE-EvANS.
[Having read the note I attached to the former letter, Mr. Eubule-Evans
informs me that when the finger was pointed at the needle, it was not
merely released and allowed to resume its normal position after oscillation,
but it was distinctly pushed aside by the finger-of course without contact-
only resuming its proper north and south position when the finger was re-
moved. I can only express the hope that Mr. Eubule-Evans will keep a careful
record of all the conditions of his experiments, and that he will give me the
opportunity of witnessing the phenomenon. It is alllo very desirable tllat
the experiment should be carefully tried by as many of our friends as p08Bible
-En. JOURNAL S.P.R.]
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The foUotoing additions have been made rincl!last month.
LEE (Rev. Frederic George, D.C.L.) More Glimpses of the World
Unseen ..................................................................LUlido'lt, 1878*
THEOSOPHIST (The) Vol. II. and III• ..........................:...Madras, 1880-1
BER~:::ci~~fe.~~~.~~~~~.~:~:.~.~~:~~.~.~~.~.~~~...~~.Pal: 1884
JA..>iKOWSKI, (Eduard) Phimomenologie und Metaphysik der anormalen
Sinnesbilder ............................................................ Leipzig, 1882t
Luys (Dr. J.) Le Cerveau, 3m edit.....................................Pam, 1878t
RICHEr (Charles) L' Homme et l'Intelligence ........................Pam, 1884
YUNG (Dr. Emile) Le Sommeil Normal et Ie Sommeil Pathologique
Pam, 1883
• Presented by Mr. H. A. Smith. t Presented by Mr. C. C. Massey.
~ Presented by Dr. A. T. 1\lyel'll.
Digitized by Google
