{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1max_nde.html","mytitle":"Max NDE 20162","mylang":"de"}
          	        Max NDE 20162  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  		  				  					Max NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						216  Max NDE  20162  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was coming back from my club ACT where we helped build stage equipment for the school play. I just finished cleaning the brushes from painting a house. I walked into my school lobby and saw some of my friends. I went to go and sit with them they said, 'Hey why don't we go and play on the ice?' So I said, 'Ok sounds like fun.' I have played on the ice in front of my school before and I like sliding on it and things of that nature. I went away from those friends who wanted to play on the ice and saw some of my other friends and went over to them. I watched what they were doing, it looked like fun, and it didn't look like much could happen to me.


Well I was running at near full speed onto the ice when I slipped, I saw my feet go into the air then I blacked out. I then was 'Floating' on top of one of those snow mounds, and I saw myself just lying there on my side with my legs crossed, but I specifically remember my legs being crossed. Then I heard a voice from very far away calling my name asking if I was joking, then I saw in a sort of a white color and couldn't really see that much. I walked to the nurse with this man who I believe was one of my vice principals and then my mom picked me up I went to the hospital and that was it. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/27/03

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I was out of my body I felt like I had my body, but I was looking at myself lying there through a very foggy light and I couldn't see that clearly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was completely unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    When I was coming back from unconsciousness I heard the voice calling my name.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I saw a sort of foggy light and it was in a dream state.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could only really have one sense, seeing.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt contentment, but more confused.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate   I belive in god more after this experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I believe more in God and that the human has many more than five senses.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best would be seeing what I looked like and the worst is remembering that picture in my mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most of the people I shared this with said it was a gift, strange, and scary.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That I would like to know what would cause this to happen and if I ever got it again I would like it to be longer and to explore its boundaries.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      You should ask how you saw yourself through foggy perception and that stuff.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1max_nde.html