{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3188","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n13_feb_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N13 February 1885","mylang":"de"}
NO. XIII.] . [FUllll.ABY, 1885.
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
aOHTBHTS.
PAGB
New Members aDd AIIIocIates .. .. .. 258
Council Meeting •• •• •• 259
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. 261
.American Society for l'Iychlcal Reaearob.. 266
Prof. Simon Newcomb aDd Mr. Edmund
Gorney on PII)'Ch1cal Reaarch.. .. .. 268
PAGB
On the Action of the WID a$a DlatancA .. 176
.A New H7Pn08Cope.. .. .. .. .. .. m
Ap}lBritiona at the Moment uf Death .• 28ll
Correspondence.. .. .. .. .. 284.
Annual Buaineaa Meeting •• •• 285
Balance Sheet .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 288
COUNCIL, FEBRUARY, 1885.
PRESIDENT.
PRoF. BALFOUR STEWART, LL.D., F.R.S.,
PROF. J. O. ADAMS, LL.D., FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
F.R.S.
PROF. W. F. BARRETT.
G. P. BIDDER, Q.O.
ALEXANDER OALDER.
WALTER H. OOFFIN.
EDMUND GURNBY.
RICHARD HODGSON.
PROF. OLIVER J. LoDGE, D.Sc.
OHARLES O. MASSEY.
REV. W. STAINTON MOSES.
EDWARD R. PEASE.
FRANK PODMORE.
LORD RAYLEIGH, F.R.~.
O. LOCKHART ROBERTSON, M.D.
E. DAWSON ROGERS.
HENRY A. SMITH.
J. HERBERT STACK.
W. H. STONE, M.B.
HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
PROFESSOR SIDGWICK will be proposed as a Vice-President, aneT for
co-option on the Oouncil, at the next Oouncil Meeting.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
ARTHUR J. BALFOUR, Esq., M.P., 4, Oarlton Gardens, S.W.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, Royal Oollege of Science, Dublin. .
THE RIGHT REV. THE BISHOP OF OARLISLE, Rose Castle, Carlisle..
JOHN R. HOLLOND, Esq., M.P., 57, Lancaster Gate, London, W.
RICHARD H. HUTTON, Esq., M.A., Englefield Green, Staines.
RE~. W. STAINTON MOSES, M.A., 21, Birchington Road, London, N.W.
HON. RODEN NoEL, M.A., 57, Anerley Park, London, S.E.
LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A., D.O.L., F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
W. H. STONE, Esq., M.A., M.B., H, Dean's Yard, Westminster,S.W.
HENSLEIGH 'VEDGWOOD, Esq., 31, Queen Anne Street, London, W.
RON. TREASURER.
ALEXANDER OALDBR, 1, Hereford Square, South Kensington, S.W.
RON. SECRETARY,
EDMUND GURNEY, 26, Montpelier Square, London, S.W.
Digitized by Google
258 JOllrnal qf Societ!/ for Ps!/chicnl Researc/...
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
RICHET. DR. OHARLES, 13, Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
SMITH, PROF. JOHN, Sidney University, Australia.
MEMBERS.
[Feb., 1885.
AKSAKOF, HON. ALEXANDER D., 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
BUGBY, WILLIAM, Hillsboro,' South Beddington, Oarshalton, Surrey.
BUNDY, COLONEL JOHN C., Chicago, U.S.A.
DASHWOOD, ALFRED, Rose Villa, Ryde, Isle of Wight.
HEROS-ALLEN, EDWARD, Oonstitutional Olub, London,.S.W.
HIBBS, REGINALD R., 13, St. Lawrence Road, North Kensington.
London, W.
WALROS;D, E. D., B.A., Hillingdon, Uxbridge, Middlesex.
ASSOCIATES.
ARcHDALE, AUDLEY, Dalton Hall. Victoria Park, Manchester.
ARKWRIGHT, WALTER GEORGE, Balliol Oollege, Oxford.
BICKFORD,SJlIlTH, R. A. H., B.A., 13, LydonRoad, Clapham London, S.W.
BOLDERO, MRS. A., ~8, Westbourne Gardens, Folkestone.
DAVIDSON, MISS FLORENCE E., Wolsey Place. Yalding, Kent.
FISHER, JOSEPH, Loughbrow Park, Hexbam, Northumberland.
.HALL, T. P., B.A., F.O.S. (Eng.), Woodstock, Ontario, CanadL
HEATON, JAMES A., 8, St. Bartholomew Road, Tufnell Park, London, N.
HOLLAND, MRS., 7, Hyde Park Square, London, W.
KJ!;LSo, O. E., 925, N 2nd Street, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
LEYMA.RIE, P. G., 5, Rue des Petits Champs. Paris.
MAGUIRE, MISS F. M., The Vale, Chelsea, London, S.W.
SMYTH, MISS M. G. MAIDSTONE, 49, Linden Gardens, London, W.
SINKISSON, MRS. E. J., 9, St. Stephen's Road, Westbourne Park
London, W.
TRENCH, J. TOWNSEND, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
'TuRNER, MISS Lucy, 4, Brigstock Road, Thornton Heath, Croydon.
WHITRIDGE, FRBJ)ERlCK W., University Club, New York, U.S.A.
WILLIAMSON, CHARLES N., 35, Hamilton Gardens. St. John's Wood.
London, N.W.
WIUGHT, FRANCIS M., .M.A., 5, Union Square, Packington Street.
London, N.
Digitized by Google
Teb., 1885.] Jdurl'talof Societll.fo" Psychical Re8eflrch.
OOUNOIL MEETINGS.
AT a Oouncil Meeting hald on the 30th of January previous to the
Annual Business Meeting, the President in the chair, the following
Members were present: Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney,
()has. O.Massey, F.W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore and Henry A. Smith.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting having been read six new
Members and eleven new Associates were elected, whose names and
:addresses are given on another page.
One Member, Miss A. A. Leith, desired to continue this ye&r as an
Associate, and one Associate, Mr. B. Whishaw, desired to become a
:Member. These changes were agreed to.
Miss Scott desired to resign her Membership, on the ground that
-circumstances at present prevented her from taking any active interest
in the Society's work.
Two donations were reported to the funds of the Society :-One
Guinea from Miss Ourtis, an Honorary Associate, and Three Pounds
from a lady who wished her contribution to be anonymous. The
Council recorded its thanks to the donors.
Presents to the Library were also received with thanks from Mr. H.
A. Smith, Mr. C. O. Massey, and the Rev. Oanon Wood.
The Treasurer reported that ~he Rev. W. White&r had become a
Life Member, having sent him a payment of £21.
The usual monthly cash account was presented, which showed that
only about one quarter of the Members and Associates had sent in their
subscriptions for 1885 during the month.
The Assistant-Secretary presented a balance·sheet of the receipts
and expenditure of the Society during the year 1884, which had
been audited and found correct, and also a report from Mr. Morell
Theobald, F.C.A., as auditor. It was resolyed that the balance-sheet
and Mr. Theobald's letter be laid before the Annual Business Meeting, in
the report of which they are more particularly referred to.
At a Oouncil Meeting held on the 13th of February, the President
in the chair, the following Members were present: Professor Barrett,
Messrs. Alexander Oalder, Walter H. Ooflin,Edmund Gurney, F. W. H.
Myers, Edward R. Pease, Frank Podmore, J. Herbert Stack, and
. Hen,sleigh Wedgwood.
rhe Minutes of the previous Meeting having been !'ea.d,itwas reported
that with one or two slight verbal amendments, the whole of the altera-
tionsin the Rules proposed by the Oouncil had been adopted,at theAnnual
Business Meeting, and that the voting at the Annual Meeting had re-
sulted in the election, as Members of the Oouncil, of the Rev. W.
Stainton Moses, Dr. O. Lockhart Robertson, and Messrs. G. P. Bidder,
tQ,O., A. Oalder, R. Hodgson,and J. H. Stack.
Digitized by Google
260 Journal of 80ciety for Psychical Researc". [Feb., 1885.
The Council then proceeded to the election of a President of the
Society for the ensuing year. Professor Sidgwick expressed his belief
that the time had arrived when it would be best for a change to be made
in the position which he had occupied since the foundation of the
Society. He entered into various reasons for this belief, explaining that
it in no way arose from any diminished interest on his part in th~
Society:; on the contrary, one of the objects he had in view was that it
would enable him in a more independent manner to pursue certain
bmnch~s of the Society's work, and to express his conclusions.
After a free expression of the feelings of the Council, the following
resolution was, on the proposition of Professor Barrett, unanimously
agreed to: .. The Council having heard Professor Sidgwick's announce-
ment of his retirement from the office of President, desire to place on
record their sense of the invaluable services rendered by him to the
Society during the three years of its existence,and their deep gratification
that the Society will still have the advantage of his help and guidance."
Professor Barrett proposed the election of Professor Balfour Stewart,.
F.R.S., as President of the Society for the year. This proposal was.
warmly seconded and unanimously carried.
Mr. Alexander Calder and Mr. Edmund Gurney were re·elected as
Hon. Treasurer and Hon. Secretary respectively.
On the proposition of Professor Sidgwick, seconded by Mr. Edmund
Gurney, Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Professor J. C. Adams, F.R.S., and
Professor O. J. Lodge, D.Sc., were unanimously elected Members of the
Council in accordance with Rule 18. .
In harmony with the change in the relation of the Council to the
research work of the Society, it was resolved to appoint a .. Committee
of Reference," to whom all Reports and Papers which it was proposed to
publish should be sent in proof.
The following Members of Council were elected as Members of this
Committee: Professor Balfour Stewart, ex·officio as President; Professor
Adams, Professor Barrett, Mr. Edmund Gurney, Professor O. J. Lodge.
Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart Robertson, and Professor Sidgwick.
It was resolved that there should be four special Council Meetings
in the year, for which the more important business should be as far as
possible reserved; and that for attendance at these four Meetings, the
expenses of members of the Committee of Reference should be paid.
It was further resolved that a statement of the changesin the method
of cOnducting the experimental investigations of the Society should be
inserted in the next Part of the Proceedings.
The following Committees were appointed, with power to add to
the number of their members :-
LITERARY COMMITTBE.-Messrs. Edmund Gumey,Richard Hodgsolll
Digitized by Google
:Feb., 1885.] J01maal o/Society/or P8ychical Re8earch. 261
.ohas. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and Professor H.
'Sidgwick.
LIBRARY COMMITTEE.-Rev. W. Stainton Moses, Dr. A. T. Myers,
oand Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
HOUSE AND FINANCE COMMITTEE.-Messrs. Alexander Calder,
:Edward R. Pease, and Josiah G. Stapelton.
Dr. Chas. Richet, of Paris, and Professor John Smith, of Sydney
·'University, Australia, were elected Oorresponding Members.
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected, whose
-names and addresses appear on.another page.
It was agreed that Mr. Frank Miles should, at his request, continue
:as an Associate instead of as a Member.
A copy of a pamphlet entitled "Gedankenlesen," was received from
-the author, Dr. Carl du Prel, for which thanks were recorded.
Mr. H. Wedgwood brought before the Oouncil the alleged pheno-
-menonof an iron ring too small to have been passed over the hand,which
was now on the wrist of Mr. Husk, and proposed that the Council
.should appoint a Committee to examine and report on the subject
Professor Barrett and Mr. Gurney were requested to inspect the ring,
:and if possible to obtain the assistance of an anatomist or surgeon.
. Professor Barrett being desirous of relinquishing the editorship of
·the Journal, Professor Sidgwick expressed his willingness to under-
·take that office; and he was appointed accordingly. It was further
.agreed that for the future the JO'IJII"IUI,lshould to some extent be re-
.ga.rded as the organ of the Literary Committee; and that its size might
''extend to 32 pages, in order to afford space for the insertion of matter
:-selected from the evidence collected by that Committee.
The Assistant-Secretary reported that an order had been received
-from the Hon. Sec. of the American Society for Psychical Research for
·300 copies of different Parts of the Proceedings, for the use of their
1\:lembers, under the arrangemElnt which the Council had proposed:
The next Meeting of the Council will take place on Friday, the 6th
'prox., at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
"Friday, January 30th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists,
in Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, the President in the chair.
The first paper read was by Mrs. H. Sidgwick, "On the Evidence
(X)llected by the Society for Phantasms of the Dead."
After pointing out that the existence ef phantasms of the dead can
()nly be established, if at all, by the accumulation of improbabilities
in which we become involved by rejecting a large mass .of apparently
Digitized by Google
262 Journal Qf Society for Psycltical Research. [Feb., 1885i.
strong testimony to facts which, as recounted, would seem to admit or
no other satisfactory explanation, and that in testing the value of this
testimony we are bound to strain to the utmost all possible supposi-
tions of recognised causes, the writer went on to say that the Society
now possesses, as the residue of a much larger number, a collection of
about 370 narratives that seemed to deserve some consideration, of
phenomena not clearly physical. The present paper was chiefly occupied
with the possible non-ghostly explanations, one or other of which the
writer thought might, by straining, be applied to the greater number of'
these cases. These explanations she cl8.3smed by reference to .the·
various sorts of error by which the evidence to such phenomena is.
liable to be affected, viz., (1) hoaxing; (2) exaggeration or inadequate
description; (3) illusion; (4) mistaken identity, including under this.
head cases where it is possible that a person taken for a ghost has really-
been alive all along; (5) hallucination.
The first four sources of error she discussed at some length, and
illustrations were given of cases where the third and fourth might,.
perhaps, have occurred.
In dealing with the fifth source of error, the writer said that the.
great difficulty here arose from the fact that genuine phantasms of the
dead, such as were under discussion, would themselves generally take.
the form of hallucination of the senses, and that, at the same time, as·
solitary and seemingly non-veridical hallucinations of persons apparently
healthy do occur, we should not be justified in assuming a hallucina-
tion to be what the Society calls veridical without some special external
reason or confirmatory coincidence. When the phantasm is that of a
living person, information about that person may afford the required
confirmation. But in the case of phantasms of the dead, we cannot.
obtain this kind of confirmation. Other kinds of confirmation are,.
however, possible. The first mentioned was that which occurswhea
two people have a hallucination simultaneously. But cases of this.
kind might, it was suggested, perhaps be explained by Thought-trans-
ference between the percipients, without necessarily..assuming a cause
external to both of them.
The other kinds of confirmatory evidence mentioned were three in
number. It might be alleged (1) that the apparition resembled a person
unknown to the percipient so strongly that he afterwards reeognised his
portrait; (2) that two or more people saw independently of each other,
and at different times, apparition~ which seem clearly to have been very
much alike; (3) that the phantasm conveyed correct information
unknown to the percipient. The discussion of narratives where con-
firmation of these kinds is claimed was deferred to another paper.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then read the second part of a paper "On a
Digitized by Coog
Feb., 1885.] Journal~f Society lor,P8ychical Re8eal'ck. 263
Telephatic Explanation of some so-called Spiritualistic Phenomena."
. The paper aimed at establishing two points: First,'that the unconscious
mental action, which is admittedly going on within us, may manifest
itself through graphic automatism with a degree of complexity hitherto
little suspected; and secondly, that automatic writing may sometimes
furnish replies to questions which the writer does not see, and mention
facts which the writer does not know, and has never known; the know-
ledge of those questions or of those facts being apparently deriv~ by
telepathic communication from the conscious or uncQnscious mind of
another person. The following is a brief sketch of the arguments used
(sOme of the considerations given in a previous paper being,for the sake of
clearness,repeated here): Automatic writing is observed invarious morbid
states. A man attacked by a slight epileptiform seizure,while in the a.ct
of writing, will often coutinue to write a few sentences unconsciously,
which,although probably nonsensical, will often be correct inspelling and
grammar. Some agraphic patients also, though conscious that they are
writing. are not aware what the letters written actually are; so that
the formation of those letters has been an unconscious act. In som-
nambulism, also, the patient will sometimes write long passages, or
even solve mathematical problems with the data of which his waking
. mind was already familiar. The writer is acquainted with a gentleman
who finds that if he fixes his attention ona given word, and then allows
his hand to rest in the writing attitude, the word is written without
conscious volition of his own, and whether his eyes be open or shut.
The explanation of Clplanchette "-writing must be sought in •
analogies like these. A CI planchette " is simply a piece of wood sup-
ported on two wheels and a pencil, with the objects (1) that a small
muscular tremor may be able to set it in motion; (2) that the writer
may be able to remain unconscious of what he is writing, which is hard
to effect if a mere pencil be employed. The" planchette," of course,
affords no evidence, except to the writer himself, that the writing is
automatic; but actual experiment shows that perhaps one person in a
hundred has this actual tendency to graphic automatism,-a result in no
way physiologically surprising. The interest of the matter thus auto-
matically written lies, of course, not in its substance, which is generally
oapricious and incoherent like a dream, but in the indications which it
gives of the mode of mental action which has produced it. The gradual
acquisition of the faculty of writingwith "planchette" presents analogies
to the process of learning afresh to write, which patients in a state of
so-called second consciousness have sometimes to go through. There are
analogies also both to atactic and to amnemonic agraphy, substitution
of letters often much resembling the classical cases of Jicmnos for
James Simmonds, Jaspenos for James Pascoe, and others recorded by
J)rB. Hughlings Jackson, Ogle, &c. The constant repetition of the
Digitized by Google
264 Journal qf Societ!l/or P'1lchical Raearch. {Feb.,I885.
samo meaningless word in "planchette "-writing reminds one of the
single meaningless utterance of some aphasics. In vocal automatism,
the same peculiarity is observable, as in the reiterated cries of the
so-called "gift of tongues" in the Irvingite congregation. Taking
all these points together, there seems reason to conjecture that automatic
writing is, in some ca.ses at least, due to the action of the right cerebral
hemisphere, to which Dr. Hughlings Jackson is disposed to attribute the
non-propositional utterances of aphasics. A curious confirmation of this
view is afforded by the frequency of rever,ed ,mpe (Spiegel-schrift,
or mirror-writing), early in the development of graphic automatism.
Eschenmayer and others have collected cases where Spiegel-schrije
accompanies left-handedness, and Dr. Ireland conjectures that the
verbal imag~ as formed in the right hemisphere ma.y be reversed in this
manner.
This unconscious cerebral action may be much more complex than
has hitherto been supposed. A gentleman, known to the writer, has
repeatedly written down, automatica.lly, a jumbled series of letters
which, on investigation, turned out to be anagrams, with a. definite
1lleaning, sometimes containing a reply to questions. Similarly, a
phrase recollected from a dream may for some time puzzle the waking
mind to detect its meaning.
But more than this. There are sometimes cases where replies are
<automatically written to questions which the writer has not seen, and
has no means of knowing. Such are some of the cases on which
Spiritualists base their belief in an intervening intelligence. But those
who have followed the evidence which the Society for Psychical Research
have now for nearly three years been publishing, as to the transmission
of thought from one mind to another without the agency of the
recognised organs of sense, will prefer to look first for the action of the
mind of some other person present at the time. For if telepathy be a
reality, traces of it must be looked for wherever unconscious mental
action is concerned.
Space permits of only one illustration of this telepathic action
showing itself in graphic automatism. The Rev. P. H. Newnham, of
Maker Vicarage, Devonport, who had had reason to believe that an
unusual communication of thought existed between himself and Mrs.
Newnha.m, determined in the year 1871 to try whether he could so
transmit questions to her mind, without speech or sign, as tllat her hand
shQuld unconsciously write replies thereto. He arranged tables in such
flo way that she could not see what he wrote; and then wrote questions,
one by one, without informing her what the question was. Her hand
wrote automatic answers to these questions, clearly indicating that the
question had been understood, though the reply was often of a
capricious or evasive kind,-a characteristic frequent in these acts of
Digitized by Google
~eb.,l885.] Journal of Societufof' P8!1chical Re8enrM. 265
-the unconscious mind. In some cases correct replies were given to
.questions involving Masonic secrets, and in other cases answers
were given which, though cohe.rent and intelligent, were different
from the beliefs, existing in either of the two conscious minds
concerned. The series of 309 questions extended over Elight
months, and was carefully recorded by Mr. Newnham in a note-
book which Mr. l\fyprs has inspected. Copious extracts from this
:mote-book will be published in the Society's Proceedings. To an
·observer less cautious than Mr. Newnham many points in these auto-
Eatic replies might have suggested the agency of some extraneous
intelligence. But Mr. Newnham prefers to suggest (in independent
accordance with the view put forward in this paper) that the dreamlike
mixture of shrewdness and incoherence seems rather to resemble the
.action of an" untrained half of the brain; " or, at least, some unfamiliar
;mode'of the working of the writer's own intelligence.
On the whole it seems that if telepathy be a.dmitted as a vera causa,
at affords a probable explanation of a great mass of cases which
Spiritualists have alleged as proving thto action of unseen intelligences,
.and which science has as yet neglected to examine.
Further cases of graphic automatism, spontaneous mirror-writing,
'&c., (occurring in normal or abnormal states) are earnestly desired, and
may besent to the Secretary,Society for Psychical Research, 14, Dean's-
yard, Westminster.
AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
,Our readers will remember that in the November number of the
JO'UII"TI.al we announced the formation of an American Society for
Psychical Research. Several meetings of the Provisional Committee
llave been held in Mr. R. Pearsall Smith's house in Philadelphia and
elsewhere, and we are now gla.d to announce the organisation of what
promises to be an influential and valuable Society. We observe with
pleasure that Prof. Simon Newcomb, who occupies a foremost place
among American men of science, has consented to act as President.
The following report appeared in one of the lea.ding New York papers,
,the Evening Post, for January 10th.
BOSTON, January 9th.
At a meeting held on Thursday at the rooms of the American
Aca.demy of Arts and Sciences, in this city, the definite organisation of
the American Society for Psychical Research was completed. The
officers of the Society were elected as follows: President, Prof. Simon
Newcomb, of Washington; Vice-Presidents, Prof. G. Stanley Hall,
of Baltimore.i Prof. G. S. Fullerton, of Philadelphia; Prof. E. C.
Digitized by Google
266 Journal of Society Jor Psychical Research. [Feb., 1885..
Pickering, Dr. H. P. Bowditch, and Dr. C. S. Minot, all of Harvard
University; Secretary, Mr. N. D. C. Hodges, of Cambridge, Mass.;:
Treasurer, Prof. William Watson.
In view of the dangers to which the new Society is exposed in the-
systematic investigation of the little-known psychical phenomena.,
great care has been taken to exclude from active control all elements.
which might turn the energy of the Society into a helpmate of any of
the vague, unsettled, and sometimes fraudulent enterprises of
Spiritualists. A scientific research must be free from all taint of
crankiness. Hence the decision that all persons elected to the Society
become associates; from among the associates 100 members to be-
elected, who alone have the right to vote. Out of the members again
are elected a council of twenty-one, including the officers above named;:
the remaining members of the present Council are: Dr. Wm. James,
Prof. George F. Barker, Mr. S. H. Scudder, Dr. C. C. Everett, Mr.
Moorfield Story, Prof. John Trowbridge, Prof. A. Hyatt, Prof. J. M.
Pierce, Mr. Coleman Sellers, Major ,Voodhull, Messrs. C. C. J acksollp
T. W. Higginson, W. H. Pickering.
The Society, the foundation of which is due to the initiation or
Prof. W. F. Barrett, of Dublin, starts with a considerable number of
adherents, about eighty members and fifty associates. Its headquarters
are, for the present, in Boston, yet it has a widely distributed con-
stituency which is growing rapidly, as the interest felt in the objects of
the Society is very general. It is expected that an important part of
the work of the Society will be done at Baltimore and Philadelphia.
What is that work to be 1 Readers of the Evening Post will re-
member the publication of an account obtained from Professor Barrett~
of the results of the investigations of the English Psychical Society~
showing that there are many obscure phenomena of the mind by no-
means yet adequately explained. The most remarkable of their an-
nouncements was the discovery of thought-transference, mental images~
passing from one person to another without following any of the known
channels of communication. As this is the most novel and startling of
the published conclusions of the English Society, and as it offers varied
<>pportunities for exact scientific experimentation, it has been decided to-
make the study of thought-transference the first undertaking of the
American Society. A committee has been appointed, with Dr. H.
P. Bowditch as chairman, to conduct this investigation. A circular
will shortly be issued stating the exact methods of experimentation,
and asking co-operation. It may be mentioned that it is the policy of
the Society to conduct aU its investigations experimentally, in the belief
that the most satisfactory results will be thus obtained; for the present~
at least, it will not attempt to collect other evidence.
The Committee desires first to find sensitive persons, so-called mind:-
Feb., 1885.] Jourfaal Qf SOCietlllor P8l1chical Re8eal·cn. 267
readers, and to test the exact extent and conditions of their peculiar
power, if it exists. They would try with such a' person whether he-
could reproduce a simple drawing which a second person looked at
intently, but which the sensitive or percipient could not see; whether
he could identify a word upon which another person had concentrated
his attention; if this is done the Committee will test the effect of'
distance between the two persons, of the interposition of various
obstacles; use rigid conditions to exclude possible collusion, conscious.
or unconscious; study the influence of the number of persons wh~
concentrate their attention upon the image the sensitive is to perceive,
&C. All these and such other experiments as opportunity and ex-
perience may suggest will be work for the Committee itself, but they
ask the clH>peration of every one intere.~ted in bringing them into com-
munication with persons who are supposed to have the faculty of'
" mind-reading."
The Committee hopes also to carry on a series of statistical reo
o searches which it trusts will be pa~cipated in by many besides.
themselves. Let an example suffice to indicate what is intended~
Suppose two persons are together; a pack of cards is taken and turned
up by one of them, card by card; as they are turned, the second
person, who is placed so as to be unable to see the cards, guesses the
suit. Now if there is any though~transference, the guesses must be
right oftener when the first person knows the suit·of the card turned
up, than when he does not; he has, therefore, only to keep tally, and
a comparison of the proportion of errors in the two circumstances wilL
show whether though~transference occurs. To secure a certain result,.
however, a very large number of observations must be made, and it is.
desirable to have many obsf;lrvers. Professor Richet, of Paris, has.
already tried this form of experiment, and reached the conclusion that.
though~transferenc!'l does take place.
It is hardly necessary to point out the profound significance of this.
inquiry, particularly if the answer is in the affirmative. On the other
hand, as the affirmation has already been publicly and repeatedly made..
if yet it is erroneous it is most important to demonstrate its falsity.
It has sU9h far-going consequences that to establish either alternative-
would be a public service of the highest value.
At the recent meeting there was much discussion as to the means.
and conditionS of Psychical Research, but no further plans were fully-
matured. It was announced that an arrangement had been made ~
supply gratituouslyall the members and associates with the Proceedings.
of the English Society, beginning with number six. It is to be hoped
that every one interested will assist the Society. Inquiries and com-
munications should be addressed to the Secretary, Mr. N. D. C. Hodges,.
19, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Digitized by Google
2fi8 JOllrnal of Sociel!! for PR!lcliicnl Research. [Feb., 1885.
PROFESSOR SIMON NEWCOMB AND MR. EDMUND
GURNEY ON PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The following discussion between Professor Simon Newcomb and
Mr. Edmund Gurney has lately appeared in the pages of Science.
:Prof. Newcomb began with the following paper, which we mentioned
at the time as appearing in the same number of Science that contained
.a cordial leading article on the work of our Society.
Although it may be regarded as doubtful whether the Society for the in-
'vestigation of psychic force, proposed at the recent meeting of the American
.Association, will result in any new discoveries, yet the philosophy of the sub-
ject is of sufficient interest to merit general consideration. The first and
:greatest obstacle we mee~ with in such investigations is the absence of clear
ideas of what it is we are to look for, and how we are to distinguish between
Teal relations of cause and effect and mere chance coincidences. The state-
.of mind of the community at large is also unfavourable to the attainment of
.any result. If we take out of it two classes holding quite opposite views,-
.the one comprising those who look upon the subject with that sentiment of
()redulity and wonder which is fatal to all scientific accuracy; and the other,
<those who think it all nonsense, and unworthy the attention of common-
:sense people-we shall have but few left for patient research.
1;£, however, this remnant is going to investigate the supjectin a scientific
.spirit, they are entitled to all the light that can be thrown upon it. We
begin by warning them against a kind of inquiry which can lead to absolutely
:no conclusion. We refer to such inquiries as those made in the following
.extract in the New York Nation, of August 28th, 1884 ;-
" The Society for Psychical Research will be grateful for any good evidence
Dearing on such phenumena as thought·reading, clairvoyance, presentiments,
:and dreams, noted at the time of occurrence, and afterwards confirmed; unex-
ylained disturbances in places supposed to be haunted; apparitions at the
moment of death or otherwise; and of such other abnormal events as may seem
to fall under somewhat the same categories."
It would be difficult for the Society to put forth anything better fir.ted
than· this advertisement to lower the estimation in which their work is
held by common-sense people. Let us make alittle calculation showing how
.often coincidences of the kind sought for must really occur in our country.
Numerical exactness in our data cannot, of course, be ·reached : all we can
.do is to make rough estimates which shall not be unreasonably far from the
IJrobable truth. .Any physician, we apprehend, will consider it quite within
the bounds of probability that one per cent. of the population of the country
.are subject to remarkably vivid dreams, illusions, visions, &c. This will
make half a million such people in the United States. Each of these persons
may be supposed to have 50 friends or relations, of whom one per annum
<dies. If they are subject to a dream or vision once a week, there is one
-chance out of seven that they have one on the same day that the friend dies.
Let us suppose that it takes a combination of eight separate and independent
points of resemblance, between the vision and the circumstances attending
the death of the friend, to constitute a remarkable coincidence,and that each
of these has a probability of one-half. We shall have, in one case out of
Feb., 1885.] Jote1'1Jalof Societll for P8ychical Re8earch. 261)1
256, remarkable combination of coincidences. Putting these results together,..
we may infer, that, as a matter of fact, some case of extraordinary coinci~­
dence between the circumstances of death, and the dream or vision by sa
friend of the dying person, does occur somewhere in the country nearly.-
every day in the year. Thus, what the Psychical Society will find, will b&
whiLt we know must exist as the result of chance coincidence. The searcn.
after haunted houses is of a different kind, but the result must be equally in-·
conclusive ; all that can be discovered is cases in which the cause of som&
apparently singular phenomena happened to be undiscoverable. The idea..
seemingly entertained by the psychists-that the residuum, after they have,
eliminated all cases in which the natural causes could be found, must be
genuine-has no logical foundation. One can hardly lie on his bed awake an.
hour aftermidnight without hearing some sound the cause of which it is
beyond his power to guess; and we do not see any essential distinctiolL.
between this case and that ofa haunted house.
The general question at issue is, whether there is any such process as.
what the psychists very happily denominate "Telepathy," which may b~
defined asfeeling at a di3ta.nee without the intervention ot any physical agent.
And just here we have the real point at issue between them and those people·
.. of the earth, earthy," who think their work is all nonsense. The real.
questions are two in number.
First, Can the mind be inHuenced by things external to itself in any other'
way than by such things acting .physically upon the nervous system'"
Second, Can the mind, by any act of the will, produce any effect outside of
itself, except through the agency of the organs of motion of the body itself
acting according to physical laws 1
The two questions may, perhaps, be combined into one by inquiring-
whether it is possible that mind can affect mind otherwise than by some.
physical connection between the nervous systems with which the two minds.
are associated. That there is a natural tendency to believe in the possibility-
of the so-called Telepathy is, no doubt, well-known to all who have con-·
sidered the subject. The frequently expresaed view that the mesmeriser'
inHuences his subject by the mere act of his will, and especially the readiness.
with which this view is received, may be cited as an example. But it is none
the less true that the longer we live, the more evidence we see that there is.
no such action. It is true that this evidence is negative, and so may alwa.ys.
lack something of being conclusive ; yet the more closely we look into the·
case, the lesa foundation we can see for any positive belief in Telepathy. We·
must remember that the physical connection through which one mind affects.
another may be of the most delicate kind; may, in fact, nearly evade all
investigation. The slightest look, an unappreciable motion of the muscles.
of the mouth or eyes, made perceptible through the light which is reHected
to the eye of the second person, constitute a physical connection. Now,
since in the operations of mesmerism the subject is always within easy sight.
or hearing of the operator, there is always room for the action of a physical.
cause between the two through the intervention of light or sound. Telepathy-
between the two could be proved only by finding that the subject was affected.
by the mesmeriser when the latter was not within sight or hearing or kno~­
ledge of the former.
Digitized by Google
270 Jout'nal of Societ!l for PR!lckicnl Re8enrcla. fFeb., 11185.
The Society for PsychicalResearch has published in its Proceedings very
detailed accounts ofa number of investiga~ions undertaken by its committee
and members, some of which are very striking. The report of the Committee
.on Haunted HoUBes,however,can hardly be regarded by lookers-onas anything
better than very scientific children's ghost stories. The extraordinary cases
.of events or accidents happening to one person being reproduced in the im-
. .aginations or visions of others at a distance, are nothing more than recitala
()f what we know, from the theory of probabilities, must be very frequent
.occurrences. A feature of these coincidences which ought not to have escaped
the notice of the Society is, that they have no feature in common by which
they can be traced to the action of a general cause, and do not even tend to
ahow that there are particular persons who poBBeBB the faculty of being in-
:fiuenced by Telepathy. A very striking case is that which most of our
readers may have seen, in which a lady awoke under the impreBBion that she
had received a blow in the mouth at the very time when her husband, a mile
()r two away, actually did receive such a blow. Now, if this lady had
-repeatedly felt her husband's impressions in this way, or if it could be shown
that a blow in the mouth or on any other part of the person often makes
itself felt by Telepathy, the case would be better worth inquiring into; but
there is no common feature of tIlls kind in the cases as reported, and they
thus fail to supply good evidence that they are anything more than mere
ehance coincidences.
The only case that looks at all strong in favour of Telepathy is that in
which one person is made to draw figures similar to those thought of by
another in his neighbourhood. H any of the members of our home Society
ean succeed in making this mechanism work, they will have something of
great interest to show the critical observer. But we apprehend that the
incredulous will, under almost any circumstances, require stronger evidence
than any which he has any prospect of getting, to make him believe that
there is no physical cause in action by which the subject has an inkling of
the drawings he is to make, or an indication whether he is going right or
wrong. This incredulous tendency will be greatly strengthened if the assist-
ance of spiritualistic performers is called in.
To this letter Mr. Edmund Gurney replied in the columns of Science
for December 5th, as follows :-
Your issue of October 17th contained two articles which are of good omen
for the future of "Psychical Research" in America. Of the firat, the.
editorial article,I need say little. It is cordially welcomed by my colleagues
and myself for its recognition of the far-reaching importance of an enterprise
in the further development of which our Society will, we hope, go hand in
hand with yours. With the second article, on "Psychic Force," 'our agree-
ment is 1_ complete; butwe still find nothing to complain of in the general
attitude of the distinguished writer. He, too, recognises the legitimacy of
the inquiry, wlille clearly apprehending its difficulties. He describes with
entire justice the two opposed claases between which Psychical Research has
to clear a path,-the party of easy credulity, and the party of easy incredu-
lity; and he Points out with no more than proper emphasis the rigorous
eaution which every forward step demands. Fraud and superstition ha~e
Digitized by Google
:Feb., 1885.] JOllrnal qf Society for PS.l!cllical RPlwfll'ch. 271
--------
-naturally seized on what science has so systematically neglected; and tho~
'who now endeavour to take the subject up from the scientific side must
.accept the fact and its consequences.
So far, then, we are wholly at one with Professor Newcomb; but we
~ot quite so readily follow him in his criticisms of our own doings. He
l>egins by condemning one of our public appeals for information; but his
:strictures seem to assume that all the information which the appeal brings in
will be regarded by us as a safe basis for conclusions. The appeal is, of
·course, merely a first step, for which it would he difficult to imagine any
~ffective substitute; though I may mention that a very large amount of our
'information comes to us through private channels. The sifting and treat-
ment of the evidence according to scientific canons must be a subsequent
labour, the mtionale of which could not be set forth, or even suggested, in
the terms of a short advertisement. And of this labour no portion is more
important 'than the one which we are glad to find Professor Newcomb so
·explicitly recognising,-the application of the doctrine of chances. In all
those branches of our inquiry where questions of coincidence occur, it is clearly
essenti:u to ascertain, as definitely as may be, how far the coincidences may
:fairly be ascribed to chance. We have taken, and are still taking, great pains to
.obtain this definite information. .Very wide inquiries have been made; and
-the results, though far from complete, may still, I think, claim decidedly
-more validity, as a basis of computation/than Professor Newcomb's guess at
-what" any physician will consider quite within the bounds of probability."
It would require more space than I can ask for, to comment on P~fessor
Newcomb's numerical argument in detail. But I may remark that he seems
to confuse the argument by classing all together what he calls" dreams,
.illusions, visions," &c.; at least, if he means to include in this heterogeneous
;group visual hallucinations of waking persons, which we regard as by far the
most important phenomena from an evidential point of view. If anyone, in
his waking moments, experiences apparitions of human forms as often as
·once a week, which is the degree of frequency that Professor Newcomb's
ealculation assumes, it is obvious that the approximate coincidence of one of
these apparitions with the death of the corresponding human being will be an
insignificant accident. But we have not ourselves met with any specimen of
·this class. We have collected more than a hundred first-hand cases of
.apparitions closely coinciding with the time of death of the person seen; and
.it is only in a small minority of such cases that our informants, according to
·their own account, have had any other hallucination than the apparition in
.question.
The following sketch may serve to show the lines on which our own reason-
ing in the matter will proceed_ Weare making a census, which, so far, shows
that in this country the proportion of sane persons, in good health and awake,
who within the last 10 years have had a visual hallucination representing
:some living person known to them, is about one in 300. Now, let
us make a supposition far below the actual mark, and confine the number of
·the acquaintanres of each of these hallucinated persons to 5. Let us
:further suppose that one of these 5 persons does actually die in thc course
.of the 10 years. This seems fair, on the whole; for, though in some cases
more than one may die within that time, in others none may die. According
272 Journal f!f Society for P811chical Be8earch. [FetJ.,1'88D_
tQ this estimate, then, the chance that the death will take pla.ce within 1~
hours of the apparition will be one in 365 X 2 X 10 X 5; that is, one in'
36,500 : in other w()rds, only one out of every 36,500 of the hallucinated
persons will, in the course of 10 years, hit off the coincidence by chance. But;
since the ha.llucinated persons are only a three-hundredth of the whole popu-
lation, this means that the proportion of the whole population who will by
chance have an apparition of a person known to them within 12 hours of that..
person'sdea.th is only one in 10,950,000. Now, we ourselves have a large col-
lection of such recent cases, resting on good firat-hand testimony; but let U&
\ put the numberfar below the mark,and say 30 cases. H,then,these 30 coinci-
dences are to be fairly attributed to chance, the population of the country
will have to be 328,500,000. But we cannot suppose that our appeal for evi-
dence haa reached the whole population ; and we shall be making a sober
estinUlte, if we reckon that within the given time 10 times as manycases mus»
have occurred as those we happen to have encountered. This brings the,
necellll&rY population up to 3,285,000,000; and the number will be further
immensely increased if we take count of the fact that many of the coinci-
dences are extremely close-that the times of the two events fa.ll not only'
within 12 hours, but within one. Thus the theory that chance would account;;
for the cases could only be justified if the population of the country were
several hundred times what it actually is. The reductio ad abaurd'Um seems.
tolerably complete.
The case of dreams is, of course, very different. We are most of us con-
stantly dreaming, A very large number of "odd coincidences" between
dreams and external events is certain to occur by mere chance; and the cases.
are rare where the correspondence is of a kind which strongly suggests tele-
pathic influences. Here, therefore, ProfeBBor Newcomb's estinlllte is far more
applicable ; and we have always felt that dreams, by themselves, could not be,
expected to afford conclusive proof of telepathy. This, however, does not,
8eem a sufficient reason for ignoring them ; since, if the fact of telepathic:
communication be otherwise established, they may throw light which we
could ill afford to neglect, on the nature of the mental and cerebral proC88Be8.
involved.
As regardR "haunted houses," we readily admit, and have expressly'
pointed out, the far greater uncertainty of the evidence as compared with the,
best telepathic cases. But even here we differ from Profe880r Newcomb,
in seeing a distinction between the experiences which we deem of some,
'Prima facie importance, and the experience which he supposes when a person.
lying awake an hour after midnight hears some sound the cause of which is:
beyond his power to guess. Sounds are the very weakest sort of evidence.
What strength the prima facie case has, depends, not on things heard, but on.
things seen; and seen, not by one person only, but by several independently'
and at different times, and, as the seers affirm, without any knowledge on.
their part that the house was s.upposed to be "haunted."
Professor Newcomb's concluding remarks, dealing with the e:&perimental'
side of telepathy, deserve careful attention. But his objections here rest
entirely on the hypothesis of visual and auditory indications consciously or.,'
unconsciously given by the "agent" to the "percipient" ; and though it is
difficult, I know, to convince persons who have not been present that suill··
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1885.] Journal qf Socl'ety for P8!Jchical Reseal·ck. 273
cient precautions have been taken to eliminate this source of error, it must;
surely be admitted that such precautions are possible. .As regards sight, no
one will deny the possibility; and, as regards hearing, we think, that, if &
careful watch is kept, the means of communication resolve themselves into
slight variations of breathing. Such variations were never detected in our
experiments, and in any case could hardly be supposed capable of rapidly
conveying to the percipient's mind the form of an irregular diagram; and
the difficulty would be increased in cases where the signs would have had to
be unconscious, as in many of our experiments where we were able not only
to vary the "agent," but to act ourselves as "agents." As for "indica·
tions whether the subject is going right or wrong," they must, of course, be
prevented by taking care that the "agent" shall not watch what the " per·
cipient" is doing. Most of the spurious "thought-reading" of the "willing-
game" would be prevented, if the" willer," instead of the "willed," were
effectively blindfolded.
But we find ourselves once more wholly in sympathy with Professor
Newcomb, when he insists' that the experiments must be repeated again and
again, under the strictest conditions, before we can reasonably expect.
thought-transference to be accepted as an established scientific fact. So far
from resenting the demand for more evidence, we are ourselves unceasi.ngly
reiterating it. The responsibility for such novel observations cannot be too
widely spread, and glad indeed shall we be to shift some of it to American
shoulders.
The following is Professor Newcomb's rejoinder in the same .number
of Science:-
Mr. Gurney's letter suggests many interesting reflections on the probabili.
ties involved in questions of Telepathic Phenomena, and I hope for an early
opportunity to engage in a further discussion of the subject in the columns
of &ience. This will naturally involve the consideration of the points raised
in his letter. Meanwhile there are two numerical data; and, if he would
favour me with them, I should feel much fla.ttered,-first1y, his estimate.
from the census result·s, of the number of persons of the age of 15 and
upwards, resident in the British Islands, whose statements he would con--
sider prima facie entitled to full credence (to guide him I may remark that.
I see no reason. why the number should not be from 10 to 20 millions)·;
secondly, his estimate of the probability that one of these persons, taken at
random, would not be above amusing himself or herself at the expense of a.
society so eminent as that of which Mr. Gurney is the honorary and honoured
secretary. These numbers will come into my discussion, and I should much
rather have them from an authority conversant with the subject than attempt
to guess at them myself.
Mr. Gurney's reply, which appeared on January 23rd, is as
follows :..,.....
In a letter which you published on December 5th, I mentioned a sort of
census whereby we are inquiring what proportion of the population has
experienced waking visions of absent friends; the object being w discover
how far coonce may account fgr the numerous cases where such hallucinations
274 Journal Qf Societ.1/ for PS.l/cMcal ResearcA. [Feb.,I885.
have coincided with the death (or BOme serioua crisis in the life) of the person
whose presence was suggested, or how far, on the other hand, these C888II
drive ua to BOrne such hypothesis as "telepathy." In a letter published by
you on the same day, ProfesBOr Newcomb has objected that untrue answers
may be given by persons wishing to amuse themselves at our expense. I am
far from denying that persons may exist who would be glad to thwart us,
and amuse themselves, even at the cost of untruth. But when the question
is put, "Do you remember having ever distinctly seen the face (>1" form of a
person known to you, when that person was not really there 1" it is not at
once obviouswhether the amttai1lyuntruthwould be "yes" or "no." In neither
case would the joke seem to be of a very exhilarating quality; but, on
the whole, I should say that "yes" would be the favourite, as at any rate
representing the rarer and less commonplace experience. " Yes" is, moreover,
the anJIwer, which, as a matter of fact, it has been very generally thought
that we ourselves preferred; so that to give it might produce a piquant sense
of fooling ua to the top of our bent. But a moment's reflection will show that,
80 far as the census might be thus affected, it would be affected in a direction
adverBe to the telepathic argument; for the commoner the purely casual hal-
ucinations are reckoned to be, the stronger is the argument that the visions
which correspond with real events do BO by chance. And if the number of
these coincident visions makes the chance-argument untenable, even when
the basis of estimation is affected in the way supposed, a jorluJI'i would this
be the case if the yflBflB were reduced to their true number.
While on this point, I may add that in such a census as ours there are
reasons.why, quite apart from untruth, an unfair number of yflBflB are sure to
be obtained. One chief reason is that, when forms to be filled up are dis-
tributed on a large scale, it is impossible to bring it home to the minds of
many of the persons whose anJIwer would be "no," that there is any use in
recording that answer. Their instinct is, that results, to be of scientific
value, must be positive, like natural-history specimens. This difficulty has
been encountered again and again ; and I feel little doubt that the proportion
of yflBflB to 210flB will in the end be quite double what it ought to be: in other
words, the telepathic argument, if it prevails will prevail though based on
data distinctly unfavourable to it.
As Professor Newcomb seemed to confine his objection to the results of the
eensus, I need not occupy yow' space with a description of the vanous pre-
cautions by which we ascertain that our cases of coincident visions-of 'OOt'idical
ballucinations-&re bond.fide records. Suffice it to say, that, whatever the
possible sources of error in our evidence may be-and there are BOme which
demand unceasing care and watchfulness-deliberate hoaxing is a danger
which we believe we can reduce to an amount that will not affect the validity
of our general conclusions. .
[We are much indebted to our Russian friend, M. Theodore
:Bruhns, of Simferopol, for several valuable communica.tions. Amongst
other papers, he has sent us the following transla.tion of a letter he has
received from a physician at the University of Kharkotr. It will be
Digitized by Google
Feb.,1885.] Journal 0/ Sockt!! lor P8!Jckical Be8earck. 275
noticed that the subject lfr. V-- appeared to be hypnotised by the
concentration of attention of the operator. This is known to occur to
sensitive subjects who have previously' been hypnotised by the usual
passes, but Dr. Chiltoff does not say whether Mr. V-- had been so
treated, probably not. In that case this experiment is of much interest
in its bearing upon other facts that have come under our notice in con-
nection with the "willing game."-ED. JOURNAL S.P.R.J
ON THE ACTION OF THE WILL AT A DISTANCE.
PRELIMINARY REPORT.
For the purpose of investigating the influence exercised by one
mind upon another, apart from the recognised ordinary channels of
sensation, I ha.ve carried out a series of experiments in the presence of
many witnesses, and among them of Professor T--. These experi..
ments were made with four gentlemen and two ladies. They consisted
in the transmission of motor or inhibitory impulses. The experiments,
40 in number, were for the most pa.rt successful, except the series with
Mr. A-- (a student of the University). But even in this last case the
will of the operatorevidently influenced" the subject;" but this subject
did not exactly accomplish my orders. For example, when I mentally
ordered him to lift his right arm, he raised the left one, &c. The dis·
tance between the operator and the subjects varied from three to 50
feet. The experiments were often performed through walls, closed
doors, &c. During the experiments the subjects remained quite awake,
except Mr. Vyezja.eff (a young officer of the Russian army), who always
began to fall asleep at the beginning of each experiment. Herewith are
t~e details of three experiments :
Ca.binet. Drawing Dining
D._
1-, Q)
J'A - - . - . . . . . . . . . . . - O· ~
i7feet. ~
1· B Room. --
Room.
A the operator. B my wife. C Mdlle. T- (the subject).
D is the position of the subject in Experiment 3. From A to C is 46 feet.
(1) April 30tl~, 1884:. I sitting in the cabinet at my writing-table.
Mdlle. T-- was sitting.in the dining-room at the table, and was occu-
pied in embroidering. The doors were open. Mdlle. T-- was mentally
ordered to discontinue her work and to go out of the room. She knew
Digitized by Google
276 JONrnal qf Society for P8ychical Research. [Feb. 1885.
nothing of my intentions. The experimentwas commenced at 9.20 p.m.
In eight minutes. my wife, who was playing on the piano, came to me-
and asked if I had not influenced her by my will, for she said that she
felt such a fatigue in her hands that she was obliged to discontinue her-
playing. But I did not think of her, all my thoughts being concen-
trated qn Mdlle. T--. At 9.35 p.m., Mdlle. T-- went out of the
room. She told me afterwards that an irresistible force compelled her..
against her own will, to rise off her chair. She felt a great fatigue.
(2) October 29tl" 1884. Present: Professor T--, Mr. M-- (a..
physician) and a student of the University of Kharkoff. In the
absence of the subject (Mr. V--) Professor T-- proposed the
following problem: Mr. V-- must seize with his left hand the collar
of his uniform. Tha subject sat with closed eyes in an arm-chair. I
was seven feet before him. The witnesses sat near me. The experiment
began at 10.5 p.m., and in seven minutes Mr. V-- had performed
the thought-<>f order.
(3) Novemher 12tl" 1884. I was sitting in the cabinet at my
writing.table. The subject, Mr. V--, was sitting at D in the
<lining-room at the tea-table. At the same table were also sitting
some ladies. The distance between me and Mr. V-- was about
50 feet. Mr. V-- was ordered to come to me in the cabinet. I had
eoncentrated all my thoughts upon the subject. As will be seen from
the sketch, I could not see the subject. But I heard him distinctly
conversing with the ladies. The experiment was commenced at 8.30 p.m.
In three minutes I heard him saying that he felt a great fatigue. The
ladies began to laugh at his intention to sleep in their presence. In
15 minutes I did not any longer hear his voice. At 8.55 my wife came
to me, and said to me that Mr. V-- fell asleep. At 9 p.m. I saw the
subject, with closed eyes, marching slowly towards me. Before the
writing-table at which I was sitting, he stopped.
Summing up the results of my 40 experiments, I consider (1) That
there exists an unknown force, acting from the operator to the subjects,
and according to the wish of the operator, provoking determined
muscular contractions.' t2) That this force actS directly On nervous
centres, and not on the groups of muscles thought of. (3) That the
character of the motions provoked by this force shows that they are of
a central origin. (4) That this force acts as well at the distance of three
as at the distance of 50 feet. (5) That this force penetrates through
various obstacles, walls, closed doors, &c. (6) That it acts in all
Possible directions. (7) That the intensity of its action upon diverse
Qrganisms depends upon the individuality of each organism.
A. OUlLTOFF, M.D.
Digitized by Google
"Feb., 1881).] Journal of Society lor P8ychical Re8earch. 271
A NEW HYPNOSOOPE.*
By J. OCHOROWICZ, M.D.
Yesterday an illusion, t;o.da.y a reality, hypnotism has definitely
-entered the domain of science. There is no longer any question either
;as to the possibility of these strange phenomena or of their high im-
-portance; it rather concerns us to increase the number of observations
.and detennine the means of study. It is with this idea in view that
I h3.ve devised a little apparatus which I call a hypno8cope, and con-
~erning which I think it will prove of interest to say a few words. In
truth, this little apparatus serves for discovering and, after a manner,
-<>f measuring" hypnotic sensitiveness." What is this special sensitive-
:ness 1 Before it is possible to give a definition of it, it will be
necessary to recognise its existence. Up to the present we have had
-no suitable means that pennitted of ascertaining whether a pe~on was
." hypnotisable" or not; and we have not even been agreed as to the
-possibility of reproducing hypnotic phenomena in every one, or in but
a limited number of sickly subjects. On the one hand, the exaggera-
tions of "magnetisers," and, on the other, the incredulity of physicians,
have for a long time contributed to prevent a solution of this
:problem. As a general thing, magnetisers have proclaimed the possi-
bility of "making everyone feel" their mystic influence, in asserting
that " the producing of [magnetic] sleep, in whomsoever it be, is only a
~uestion of time," while physicians have been nearly unanimous in
recognising that it is only with those having diseased nerves, and
.especially with hysterical women, that these sorts o-f experiments have
;any chance of success. The researches to which I have devoted myself
<:ontradict both these assertions.
Hypnotic sensitiveness-that is to say, the faculty of being
influenced by the practice of hypnotisation-is neither inherent to
-everybody nor connected with any disease whatever-hysteria, epilepsy,
neurasthenia, or anemia. It is a complex aptitude, but one sui generis,
which depends upon peculiar reflex relations between the cerebro-spinal
.and ganglionic. systems, Ilnd especially between the brain and the
vaso-motor nerves. This special aptitude being for the most paIt innate,
.one is hypnotisable or not just as he possesses such or such a tempera-
ment. The best of intentions, on the one hand or on the other, cannot
.suffice to put a person asleep who is devoid of.such special aptitude.
.' What is the number of hypnotisable subjects 1 This question has
been recently propounded by Dr. Bremond. 'C I know," says he, " 97
'young persons in whom all these nervous states can be produced atwill.
Here, at Paris, out of nine young people who belonged to liberal pro
* From La Lumi8re Eleetrique. See note at end.
Digitized by Coog
I
27H Journal of Society for Ps-f/cMcal Re8earclt. [Feb•• 18~
fessions, and :who consented to undergo experiment, it was found
possible, in a few minutes, to put two into these nervous states of
fascination, catalepsy, lethargy, and somnambulism. In what propor-·
tion are such impressionable subjects found 1 Who can answer the
question1" This is a service that the hypnoscope is destined to render us..
According to the experiments that I have been able to perforui,
among persons of all conditions taken at random, the number of
subjects who are hypnotisable amounts to about 37 per cent. These·
persons are hypnotisable in varying degree; 15 per cent. exhibit com-
plete somnambulism, and 4-5ths per cent. undergo the influence of
suggestions, even in a waking state. Thirty per cent. marks a mean_
The figure is lower in certain professions, and especially among phy-
sicians (about 5 per cent.). It is higher in ordinary people, in the sick..
and in young persons between 15 and 25 years of age. 'Women are nl>-
more susceptible than men, and in spite of a certain relation with.
nervous diseases in general and hysteria in particular, this aptitude sui;
geneMa is not synonymous with nervousness. A goodly number of
extremely nervous persons are not sensitive to hypnotisation, while we-
find excellent subjects among healthy people who are in no wise nen-ous.
Healthy women are generally less sensitive than men, while among the'
sick there is a marked preponderance on thA side of females. Some-
times the proportion is 45 per cent. in men and 37 in women (service of
Dr. DumontpaiIlier, at the H6pital dA Pitie). Hysteria seems to present·,
a favourable field, yet there is a goodly number of hysterical women
who are absolutely refractory.
And now, if this sort of research has appeared to us worthy of
attracting the attention of our readers, it is for the reason that, accord-
ing to our observations, what is true for hypnotism is likewise so for the·
phylJiological action oftlte magnet. Everybody who is sensitive to the-
magnet is hypnotisable, and this, too, to a degree that entirely corrt!-·
,sponds; all others are refractory.
Having remarked this principal fact, I have endeavoured to give the
magnet a form that is at once efficacious and practical. The hypnoscope,
FI (;.2.
FIe."
is a tubular magnet, whose form (Fig. 1) recalls that of the Joule electro-
magnet, only the lines of force therein are directed rather within tha.
Digitized by Coogle
Feb., 1885.1 Journal of Society lor Psychical Re8earc"•. 279
------
out of the magnetised tube. This latter is only 3'4 cm. in diameter by
5'5 in length, and weighs but 169 grammes. Forged from Alvar steel~
it exhibits under this form a remarkable power, since it lifts as much as.
20 times its own weight.
The mode of application is very simple. After removing the arma.-
ture the forefinger of the person who is to be submitted to the test is in-
troduced into the hypnoscope in such a way that it shall touch both
poles at once (Fig. 2), and at the End of two minute8 it is removed, and
an examination made of the modifications that it has undergone. In
70 persons out of 100, taken at random, no change will be observed.
In about 30 per cent. two kinds of modifications will be observed-viz.,
8ubjective or objective.
Here is where we think that we have found an answer to the ques-
tion raised by Sir William Thomson in his last lecture "On the Senses
of Man." Have we a special sense for the impressions of magnetism t
"It is possible," says the English scientist, "that there is a ma.","lletic
sense, and that a ma.","llet of V61"IJ great power may produce a sensation
entirely different from that of heat, force, or any other sensation;. • •
at all events,the fact merits profound research."
111 answer to these reflections, I will limit myself to the remark that.
in experimenting since 1880 I have never observed sensations that
were entirely new, and as, moreover, it would be difficult to find organs
for such new sense that were adapted to it, there is no ground for ad-
mitting a sixth, magnetic sense. But this does not prevent more than
a quarter of humanity from being influenced by a magnet of medium
power, and experiencing certain very distinct sensations. The principal
of these are the following :-
Twenty times out of 100, disagreeable stinging and itching;
and, sometimes, one would say sparks or needles pricking the skin.
Seventeen times out of 100, a. sensation as of a cold blast, or one
of heat and dryness. The tW9 impressions may co-exist-one in the
right arm and the other in the left. Thus, a magnet pla.ced under the
feet of paralytics has been observed to warm them, although a good
fire was powerless to do so. The cold draught much resembles that.
which one experiences in front of an electro-static machine. Eight.
times out of 100 there are painful sensations-pains in the joints.
"I should say that my bones were being broken," exclaim the subjects
under experiment. Five times out of 100 there is a sensation of
inflation of the skin-and one which may be real, since it is some..
times difficult to remove the subject's finger from between the poles of
the hypnoscope. Two times out of 100 there is a sense of weight
in the finger or the entire arm; also a sensation of being irresistibly
carried along, followed by a real attraction, and almost always a con-
traction with complete insensibility. This is an exceedingly curious
Digitized by Google
280 Journal of Societ.1I for Psychical Be8t'arck. [Feb., l8R6.
phenomenon. I exhibited this experiment before the Medical Society
of Lemberg in 1881. The suqject (who was in excellent health) was
asleep, the eyes closed, the pupils directed upward, and the head com-
pletely covered with an opaque veil. At every approach of the magnet
to within a distance of about 15 cm. his hand was quickly extended
toward it, and followed all its motions until it became rigid and in-
sensible. Then it became necessary to restore sensibility, or rather
hypenesthesia,in order to re-begin the 'experiments. I hasten to add that
the same phenomenon was reproduced, although, perhaps, a mtle less
markedly, by the approach of a. metal, of glass, or of any other body
whatever. The subject, when questioned in his sleep, said that he felt
as if he were being carried along in a given direction without know-
ing why. The objective modifications are profounder, IIJld more impor-
tant for diagnosis. They belong to one of four categories-viz., (a)
involuntary movements (quite rare) ; (b) insensibility (complete anal-
gesia or aruesthesia); (c) paralysis (impoBBibility of moving the
finger; (d) contractura. (rigidity of the muscles).
. .The phenomena. that are called forthdisappear in a few minutes under
the influence of a very slight massage; but, without that, they may
persist for several minutes, and even for several hours.
Persons in whom the hypnoBCope causes insensibility, paralysis, or
contractura may be hypnotised in a single seance. With others the ex-
periment must be repeated.
Let us now touch upon the question of the causes.
So itis evident that the magnet exerts a certain influence upon the
nervous system of persons who are predisposed. This physiological action
has been very little studied; there exists, nevertheleBS, Ii. certain number
of experiments relative to the tll.e'rapeutic action. Without speaking of
Mesmer, it was established as long ago as 1779 by Drs. Andry and
Thouret, and confirmed by Becker (1829), Bulmering (1835), Lippic
(1846), and especially by Maggiorani (1869-1880). To-day it is placed
beyond controversy by Messrs. Charcot, Schiff, Vogt, Benedict,
Vigouroux, Debore, Proust, Ballet, and others.
But, while it is incontrovertible, is it really magnetic 'I It seems to
me that it may be so admitted, [only] in part, since (1) the importance
of the action is not in direct relation with the power of the magnet, but
rather with the degree of hypnotic sensitiveness of the suhject experi-
mented upon; and (2) the north pole has no other infllience than the
south, although it should necessarily have in the case of an action that
was purely and simply magnetic. Is it, then, a. metalloBCOpic action, as
Mr. Pellot has supposed 1 This question, which had bet'n alreadyasked
at the date at which I made my first communication through Dr.
Brown-Sequard, I will answer as follows: (1) the number of persons
'Who are sensitive to metals is less than that of those sensitive to the
Digitized by Google
"Feb., 1885.] Journal of &cietll for P81JcMcal Resem·cll. 281
magnet, and much less than the number of those who are specially
sensitive to steel. (2) There are persons sensitive to metals (to copper,
for example) and insensible to the magnet, and consequently likewise
refractory to hypnotisation. .
Then is this mysterious action merely imaginary-the effect of
suggestion, as one says to-day after the labours of Dr. Bernheim 1 No;
because (1) it is sometimes (though rarely, it is true) exerted un·
known to the subjects under experiment, upon persons asleep, upon
animals, &c.; and (2) we may easily distinguish the sensations pro-
duced simply by emotion or expectant attention from those produced
by the hypnoscope; for imaginary sensations change character or dis-
appear on a new test, while genuine ones always return, preserve their
characters, and even become more and more marked. Imaginary sen-
sitiveness becomes effaced, while real sensitiveness is increased by
.habitude.
Nevertheless, we may grant that the imagination, without being a
'Sufficient cause to explain the phenomena, enters into play in the great
majority of cases, as an auxiliary, in preparing the accessibility of the
:patients. In short, the influence is double-physical and psychical.
..Being capable of serving as a physical excitant, does the magnet act
directly upon the tissues exposed to its influence, or rather indirectly
by reflex way 1 It a.ppears that both cases present themselves, but that
the last is the more important. It is the vaso-motor nerves that seem
to be reached by preference. Are the direct action upon the tissues or
the blood and the reflex action upon the nerves identical 1 It appears
not. At all events, magnetism alone does not explain these effects. I
xather incline toward the hypothesis that, in the majority of the
:phenomena, the magnet is merely the substratum of another action,
which is so weak, from a psychical point of view, that it hides itself
from our instruments, and exhibits itself only through the intermedium
of exceptionally sensitive nervous systems. Is this other physical
action due to a new and unknown force 1 It is probable that it is not
an entirely new force, but only a new and unknown manifestation-a
peculiar modification of electric phenomena. This is all that the
present state of our knowledge allows us to say. But the insufficiency
(If theory in no wise interferes with the practical use of the hypnoscope,
and, if it is true that it gives us at the same time useful indications as
to the state of the nerves in nervous complaints, the importance of the
application may be readily seen. '
My personal idea goes still further. I see in the revelations of this
instrument the necessity of a future subdivision of therapeutics. It is
useless, and even. imprudent, to apply the same remedy to sensitive and
non-sensitive persons. With a large number of hypnotisable patients,
.all remedies are equally good or equally. bad, according to p6£uliar
Digitized by Goog
282 Journal of Societ!l for P8!lckical Re8earch. [Feb.,l885..
nerrx>U8 influences. We may neutralise strong doses of the most typical
medicaments, and reproduce their effect in a most positive manner, by
8U!JgeBtion. In sensitive persons we obtain an improvement that is
often almost instantaneous under the influence of various trifling means.
that hypnotism and magnetism put at our disposal.
[We reprint Dr.Ochorowicz's paper from the translation which
appears in the Englisl~ Meclmnic; the author is evidently entirely
ignorant of the work done by the Society for Psychical Research, and:
though his experiments appear to be numerous his generalisations are
somewhat hasty, e.g., "everybody who is sensitive to the magnet·
is hypnotisable," &c.; nOlO do we think he has taken sufficient pre-
cautions to preclude the effect of the imagination, due to expectant.
attention, from vitiating his conclusions. Nevertheless, the paper is.
interesting and worthy of record-ED. JOURN.&L S.P.R.]
APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH.
The testimony of competent witnesses on behalf of apparitions of
their relatives. or near friends when these are at, or about, the moment;.
of death, is so abundant and the evidence so cumulative that there are
few natural phenomena of an infrequent character that can be accepted
with more confidence. As a matter of evidence, and also of intrinsic.
probability, it is better established that such apparitions do occur than
that, say, "fire balls" exist, though no meteorologist now doubts these-
latter, however inexplicable they may be. To the volume of evidence
collected by the Literary Committee of the Society for Psychical
Research I add the following which reached me whilst in America.
Through the kindness of Major Woodhull, M.D., of David's Island,.
New York, I was enabled to see the narrator, Captain MacGowan,
who is in active service in the United States Army, and permits me to-
give his name; the names of other persons who could confirm the
narratives were also given to me, but not for publication.-W. F. B.
In tae year 1875, Captain A. B. MacGowan, 12th U. S. Infantry,..
was stationed at Camp Independence, California; having with him his
wife. His two sons, Charles, aged 15, and George, aged 12, were at that
time at school, at Napa College, California, and boarded in the house:
and at the table of one of the instructors, Mr. George.
Mrs. MacGowan was a lady of robust health, almost unacquainted
with illness; and at this particular time was arranging to give an
entertainment to their friend", military and civil. The station being;
not only far beyond the railroad, but out of the ordinary line of travel,.
guests would come to sU(lh a party with their own conveyance, and
after several days' journey-; and a.rrangements would be made to
entertain them over-night and longer. Such a festivity would be quite
an event for the outpost and for all those interested in it. There was
no telegraphic communication with this camp; and the mails were slow,
and the diF.otance long. In fact, from Camp Independence, the school is.
nearly 600 miles. The boys knew what was going on at home by
Digitized by Google
Feb.. 1885.J Journal of Society for P8!1ckical Be8earck. 283
previous correspondence, and knew that, so far from there being any
cause for u!leasjness, the prospect was one of active enjoyment.
On the morning of December 23rd, 1875, Charles. the elder of th&
boys at school, came to the breakfast-table with a disturbed countenance,.
but denied having any trouble when asked about it by the teacher. H&
was unable to eat any breakfast, although allowing himself to be helped ;.
but when the teacher, at the meal, insisted on knowing the cause of his.
distress, fearing he might be ill, he burst into tears, and exclaimed,
"My mother is dead." He then went on to say that, having gone to-
bed and to sleep as usual, and with no premonition of trouble, he was
awakened in the night and saw his mother standing by his bedside; who-
said to him, "Charlie, be a good boy ;" and then disappeared. This
occurred between 11 and 12 p.m. He had gone to sleep, not hearing:
11 strike; but was awakened by this occurrence, and heard all the other
hours strike, including 12 o'clock, till morning. The teacher endeavoured
to ma.ke light of it; but the boy would not be comforted. In a..
day or two a letter was received, saying his mother was indisposed, but;.
not seriously; this was followed a few days later by the announcement.
that she had unexpectedly grown worse, and had suddenly died, tl.t;.
11.20 p.m., of this same night (December 22nd, 1875), in which th&
apparition was seen. The teacher, Mr. George, made a note of the occur-
rence, and subsequently informed Captain MacGowan thereof.
[Captain MacGowan stated that his son had both heard the voic&
and seen his mother. Though I have been unable to communicate with ,
the son, I am informed that the impression produced on him was most
solemn and profound. I have written to Mr. George, who noted ddwn.
,he lacts at the time and bifore tlte motlter's deatl~ was known, but,
have had no reply as yet. Mrs. MacGowan was suddenly taken ill
and her death was most unexpected.-W. F. B.]
PREMONITION.
The following is also from Captain MacGowan :-
In January, 1877, I was on leave of absence in Brooklyn, with my-
two boys, then on vacation from school. I promised the boys that r
would take them to the theatre that night, and I engaged seats for us.
three. At the same time I had the opportunity to examine the interior
of the theatre, and I went over it carefully, stage and all. These seats.
were engaged the previous day, but on the day of the proposed visit it
seemed as if a voice within me was constantly saying, "Do not go to-
the theatre; take the boys back to school." I could not keep these-
words out of my mind; they grew stronger and stronger, and at noon I
told my friends and the boys that we would not go to the theatre. My
friends remonstrated with me, and said I was cruel to deprive the- .
boys of a. promised and unfamiliar pleasure to which they had looked
forwa.rd, and I pa.rtly relented. But all the a.fternoon the words kept
repeating themselves and impressing themselves upon me. Tha.t evening,.
less than an hour before the doors opened, I insisted on the boys
going to New York with me, and spending the night a.t. a..
hotel convenient to the railroad, by which we could sta.rt in.
Digitized by Google
284 Jmll"llfllof Socii"!! .101' PS.I/chicf11 ResearcH. [Feb.,I885.
-the early morning. I felt ashamoo of the feeling that impelled me to
act thus, but there seemed no escape from it. That night the theatre
"was destroyed by fire with a loss of some 300 lives. Had I been pre-
;sent, from my previous examination of the building, I would certainly
:have taken D!y children over the stage, when the fire broke out, in order
-to escape by a private exit, and would just as certainly have been lost
.as were all those who trusted to it, for that passage, by an accident,
(lould not be used. Had I gone my sister, who was present, but in
another part of the house, would surely have been lost also, for we had
:arranged to go home together. .AJJ it was she left the building before
the play was finished and was at home when the fire began.
I have never had a presentiment before or since. I am. not in the
llabit of changing my plans without good reasons, and on this occasion
.I did so only with the greatest reluctance.
What was it that caused me, against my desire, to abandon the
J11ay after having secured the seats and carefully arranged for the
J11easure 1
August 27th, 1884.
[Captain MacGowan stated to me that the voice was perfectly
dear, "like someone talking inside me," it kept saying: "Take the
"boys home, take the boys home." And this from breakfast time till he
took the boys away, shortly before the theatre opened. He never ex-
perienced anything like it before or since; never had any other
llallucination. His sister has still got the tickets which he had
bought and paid for. Three hundred and five people were burnt to death
-that night.-W. F. .8.]
CORRESPONDENCE.
MODERN PROPHECIE&
To the Editor of the "JOURNAL OF SOCIErY FOR PSYCHlCA.L RESEARCH."
Sm,-There is one subject which seems to me well worthy of careful
"investigation by the Societyfor Psychical Research, i.e., the examination of
the evidence for and against modern prophecies. A large number of these,
as we all know, are forgeries. Some of the most barefaced are those con-
"nected with the name of Mother Shipton"in our own country, and which have
"been exposed in Notes and Qu.eries. There are, however, two or three
l)rophecies of Mother Shipton's (or at least quotedin her name in 17thcentury
-editions of her prophecies) worth noticing.
Cazotte'sfamousprophecy has also, I believe, been proved to have been
published after the events, and therefore is worthless. But these failures
·of Shipton's and Cazotte's by no means prove the falsity of all modem pro-
phecy. Let me quote a few worth examination.
1. The prophecy of S. Malachi. This may be disputed in its earlier parts,
llut in the 19th century some points are very singular.
" 2. The faMOUS French prophecies of Nostradamus, Bome of which, as
:affecting English lristory, are being published by Mr. Ward in the Anti-
quarian Magazine.
3. The singular forecast of the life of the Empress Josephine, which Sir
A. Alison in hishistory accepts as, ongood evidence, told by Josephine many
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1885.] Journal of 80ciety lo" PilJlcltical Research. 2850
yean before .her being emprellll. Around the Bonaparte family there are a·
clusterof these forecasts which much affected Napoleona I. andID. to believe
in these things. -
4. The so-called Merlin prophecies, some of whichare obscUre, but others.
very curious, 8.g., one, in old Cornish, relating to the place wherefrom I am
writing, which may be thus rendered :-
., Tbey shall land on the rock of Merlin,
Who shall burn Paul, Penzance, and Newlyn."
The Spaniards landed at Point Spaniard, near the Merlin rock, in 1595, and
burnt Paul, Penzance, and Newlyn j but had it been an afterthought, or a.
forgery, the mistake would not have occurred of saying they would land on
the fatal rock. The prophecy otherwise was fulfilled to the letter.
5. The remarkable prophecies of the fa.ll of Poland in the 17th century.
6. The prophetic history in Latin of the House of Brandenburg.
7. Last, not least, the ancient oracles, especia.lly of Delphi.
~side these, there are scores of cases in almost every European history
of prophecies having been fulfilled. Might not the authorities (before the
time) for these prophecies be critically examined 1and where accidental coin-·
oidence is a pollllible explanation, the mathematical law of chances should be
applied.
In fine, the questiona to be considered are :-
1. Was the prophecy undoubtedly published before the event happened r
n there is any unoertainty about this point, further inquiry is needless.
2. Was the statement actually or only approximately fulfilled 1 In the-
case of imposture or forgery the actual facts would be reproduced. Approxi-
mationa should encourage further research.
3. Was the prognostication merely the exercise of ordinary forethought.
on the part of the seer. just as some historians by studying the past have
occasiona.lly guelllled the probable future pretty well1 In this case it is
merely mental acumen involved.
4. May the fulfilment be mere chance 1 Here the mathematical law of
chance should be applied as in other departments of Psychical Research.
There are coincidences. but they are infrequent. and ruled by mathematical
laws. .
W. S LACH-SzylUU..
Newlyn S. Peter Vicarage. Penzance.
ANNUAL BUSINESS' MEETING.
The Third Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society-
was held at 14, Dean's Yard, London, S.W., on the 30th of January.
The President, Professor H. Sidgwick, briefly referred to the growth_
of the Society during the past year, mentioning some of the facts-
recorded on the first page of the Journal for January.
An audited ba.la.nee-sheet of the receipts and expenditure of the-
Society during the year 1884 was placed before the Meeting. A letter-
from Mr. Morelll'heobald, F.C.A., as the auditor appointed by the-
Members at the Annual Business Meeting last year, was read, in which
he expresse.d his satisfaction at the way in which the accounts were
kept, and made one or two suggestions for the future as to the system
adopted; The letter was referred to the Finance Committee. The
ba.lance-sheet .is given on another page. In further commenting on it
Digitized by Google
~86 Journal qf Society for P81/ckical Re8earch. [Feb.. 1885
the President said it appeared that,a.fter taking account of moneys due
-and owing at the end of the year, there was still a balance on the right
side; in addition to which there was the Library, the stock of Pro-
.ceedings, and the furniture and fittings belonging to the Society It
was agreed that- a valuation of these should be made during the current
year, so that at its close the Society might know its exact position both
as to capital and as to receipts and expenditure.
Several alterations in the Constitution and Rules, which had been
-agreed to by the Council during the past year, were submitted to the
-Meeting; as also were several proposed by the President and other
-Members, the tenour of which the Council had approved. The Presi-
dent explained the intention of these, dwelling especially on the changes
proposed in Rules 4 and 19. These seemed to him to have become
advisable both in consequence of the adhesion to the Society of several
-persons of scientific eminence, and of some changes which it was pro-
posed to make in the relation of research-committees to the Council.
After two slight verbal alt-erations had been agreed to the alterations
were adopted as follows ;-
That in Rule 4 the words-" or a single payment of Twenty Guineas"-
be inserted in section (a) after the word •• annually."
That in the same Rule the words-" or a single payment of Ten Guineas, and
who shall be eligible to any of the offices of the Society"-be inserted in
section (b) after the word" annually."
1.'ha.t in Rule 6 the following sentence be inserted after the words "for the
following year" ;- .
.. The SUbscription of each year remaining unpaid on and after the
1st of July, will be considered as in arrear, and no Member or
ABBociate so in arrear shall be entitled to enjor, any of his
privileges while such subscription remains unpaid. '
That Rule S stand thus ;-
HONORARY MEMBERS _Alm' HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
S.-The Council may inVite any person who
(i) Is either distinguished for knowledge or experience in Psychical
Research orotherwise eminent, to become an Honorary Member
of the Society; or any person who
(ii) Has rendered services to the Society, to become an Honorary
Associate, such person to be eligible for- re-election annually.
Honorary Members and ABBociates shall have the privileges without
the obligations attaching to Associates.
That Rule 9 stand thus ;-
9.-The Council shall have power to elect as Corresponding Members,
who shall be on the same footing as Honorary Members, persons
able and willing to forward the objects of the Society. They shall
be eligible for re-election annually.
That in Rule 10 the clause .. shall be given at least seven days previously,"
be altered to "shall be given at least ten days previously."
Digitized by Google
."".Feb., 1885.] JouN,al qf Soctety /0'1' P8ychical Re8earcll. 287
·That Rule 16 (now numbered Rule 17) stand all follows, and that it be placed
immediately following Rule 19 (now numbered Rule 20) :-
17.-If the number of nominations for election to the Council exceed
the number of vacancies, voting papers shall be sent round to all
Members of the Society, at leallt ten days prior to the Annual
General Meeting. These papers must be in the hands of the
Secretary of the Society before the commencement of the Meeting.
[The rest as at present.]
'That the first sentence of Rule 19 stand all follows :-
Any Member or Associate of the Society who shall have paid up all
SUbscriptions due from hill)., including that for the current year, or
.any Vice-President, Honorary Member, or Honorary Associate of
the Society, shall be eligible for election all a Member of Council.
[The rest I10B at present.]
'That in Rule 24 the first clause of the lallt sentence stand thus :-" Every
Committee appointed by the Council shall report its proceedings to the
Council through the Chairman or Secretary of such Committee, one of
whom must be a Member of Council."
The Meeting then proceeded to the election of new Members of
-Council to fill the six vacancies caused by the retirement in rotation of
Dve Members, and by the death of Mr. Walter H. Browne. A large
number of voting papers having been sent in, the President deputed
Mr, Gurney and Mr. Podmore to count the votes. The result was that
-the following gentlemen were elected :-
G. P. Bidder, Q.C. Rev. W. Stainton Moses.
Alexander Calder. C. Lockhart Robertson, M.D.
Richard Hodgson. J. Herbert Stack.
During the time occupied in examining the voting papers, the
"1?resident entered at some length into the changes contemplated in re-
:gard to the position of the Council towards those who were engaged in
the work of experimental research. The Hon. Percy Wyndham, M.P.,
pointed out some respects in which he did not think the new plan would
work so satisfactorily as the old one had done. In reply to these re-
-marks, and to others which were made, the President entered into
further explanation of his views, referring to the manner in which the
.Royal Society exercised a control over the papers presented to it. It
·was agreed that a brief statement should be prepared, explaining the
new relationship and the conditions under which the Council would be
·prepared to aid investigation by pecuniary grants. On the question
:'being put to the Meeting the vote in favour of the change was carried
.".em. con.
Digitized by Google
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
RECEIPTS A.ND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEA.R ENDING 318t DECEMBER, 1884-
I~
~f.
1884. £ B. d. £ s. d.
Q!:f.
1884. £ s. d. £ B. d.
Jan. i.-To Balance in hands of Treasurer ... 89 5 1 Dec. 3L-By Research Committees:-
Do. Secretary ... 217 6 Literary Committee 137 6 0
42 2 7 Mesmeric Committee 24 13 6
Dec 81.-" Subscriptions :-- Haunted House Committee 14 8 0 ~
. From 171 Members 865 8 0 Salary of Copyist ...... 60 0 0 Q
Iii:
"
208 Associates 22414 0 Travelling Expenses of Copyist 5 0 0 ;l
590 2 0 241 7 6 1:1
" Donations ... ... 496 4 0 .. Library ... 22 14 1 ....
" Sale of Publications :- " Printing:-
48 6 0 ~
Per Triibnpr & Co. (July 1888 Proceedings, Part IV.
to June 1884) .. 44 8 1 " ,. v. ... 73 2 6 !)j
"Secretary ... ... 80 9 6. " "VI.... 64 15 6
~.
74 12 7 " " II. Ed. 3. 21 0 0
" Rent-(Two upper floors at14,Dean's Index to Volume I. 876 ~
Yard, SIX months to Michael- Journal, Nos. 1-7 48 5 6
l
mas, 1884) 27 10 0 General 58 18 4
" Sundry Receipts 8 4 8 817 15 4
" Covers and Binding, Proceedings, VoL I. S 15 II
~
" General Meetings... .. ... ... 32 11 /)
" Lectures 53 10 0
~
"Advertising... ... ... ... 68 14 8
"Reporting '" ... ... ." 15 4 6 2-
" Translation (from the Gennan) ... ... 9 9 0 ....
.. Travelling Expenses (Members of Council) 28 9 2
~
" Salary to Secretary (July 1888 to Sep. 1884) 140 o 0
, Rent and Service (twelve months to
120 o 0 ~
, Michaelmas, 1884) ... ... ... '"
i
"Furnishilf.... ... ... 9 17 4
"Reading oom and Stationery 11 11 0 ~
'1 " Gas (six months) ... •.. 4 12 II
" Postage (Secretary's) ... 44 7 8
'i;l
.. General EX/::nnse8... •.. ... ... 29 13 3
" Balance in ds of Treasurer 75 8 2 t
Audited and found correct-
Do. Secretary 10 0 0
85 3 2 ....
MORELL THEOBALD, F.C.A. ---- --- ~
£1,283 15 10 £1,23315 10
JafltUl1)', 1885, ?'!..
F/!
