{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maxine_m_fde.html","mytitle":"Maxine M FDE 2454","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maxine M FDE 2454  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maxine M FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						748  Maxine M FDE  2454  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

  					  I had been invited to a friend of mine's birthday which took place in his restaurant. I was with my husband at about four o'clock in the morning.  We decided to leave. I was tired and I asked my husband to drive, but as he was also tired, I finally accepted to drive home. I felt very drowsy while I was driving and at about two miles from home, I fell asleep. I suddenly found myself floating outside the car and seeing and hearing earth and stones hitting the side of the car as it swerved towards a huge ditch. The car then plunged into the ditch, tried to go up on the other side, but rolled over and fell back into the ditch. I remember being in a sort of tunnel and being projected towards a bright light at the end of the tunnel. I was sliding at great speed towards the light and I thought 'When I'll stop sliding, I'll be dead.' The sliding feeling seemed to be coming out of my head and not out of my body, as though something was being sucked out of my head. I saw no one, heard nothing except the swishing sound due to the speed at which I was sliding down the tunnel. I heard bells or something. The sliding finally stopped and I knew I hadn't died. I was bruised and shocked but not badly injured. My husband was not injured either; nor were our two dogs.

Two days later, a man had the same accident as we had, in the same place, but he died.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1, 1980   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   A car accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew at that time that I was unable to control anything and that I would have to accept the outcome. I am a very controlled person with a very strong will - a sort of mind over matter person, but here I knew I wasn't controlling anything. I just had to accept what was going to happen.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was sliding down the tunnel, because I knew that when I stopped sliding I would know if I had died or not.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     The experience seemed to last for a long time, but in earthly terms it only happened in a few minutes or seconds.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was transparent when I floated out of the car and saw what was happening outside, but once in the tunnel everything was terribly bright and the actual tunnel was more like a pipeline or something - not as spacious as a tunnel.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound of swishing as I slid down the tunnel at great speed was extremely loud and frightening. There was a sound of bells in the distance.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A sort of grey pipeline with colors like rays of light - red and gold.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright yellow light at the end of the tunnel with red and gold rays of light due to the speed at which I slid down the tunnel.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fright at not knowing whether I was going to die or not, but then a sort of resignation.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I'm not afraid of dying. As if when you are about to die, you are disconnected from your body and feel no physical pain.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just a certainty that what has to be will be.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with close friends a few days afterwards. They thought I had dreamed up the whole thing.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I saw my car a day after the accident, at the garage, it was a complete wreck, but on the sides, the paint had been damaged by stones, and this is what I saw when I was 'out of my body' before the car went into the ditch.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Every time I have to drive at night, I think about my experience and I'm scared to death of falling asleep again!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maxine_m_fde.html