{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1md_fde.html","mytitle":"MD FDE 8253","mylang":"de"}
          	        MD FDE 8253  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					MD FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						4320 MD FDE 8253  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I've never written this down, despite this being the most profound experience of my life. I think because I never had a name for it, considering it was technically not a NDE. I've only recently heard of FDEs and knew that is what I had. It's always been difficult to talk about this experience since it is so difficult to describe. I always wondered if this has happened to anyone else. 
  				    
  On New Years Eve day 1991, my friend and I were going to the mall. She was driving. I had just found out that I was 5 weeks pregnant.

  We were driving west on the interestate which is a separated state highway.
  
  We were in the left lane in a two lane highway. There was a car coming towards us. He was going the wrong way but was not in a lane.  As he passed cars he was waving his hands at other drivers. I was like, 'What is this fool DOING?'  He was trying to warn us.  About a minute later here comes a blue car, in both lanes weaving back and forth between the two. Cars and trucks were jerking out of the way. The two cars in front of us parted and this blue car was about to hit us dead-on going 65mph vs 60mph. All I could see was a head of gray hair above the steering wheel with the fingers gripping it. I didn't see a face and didn't know it was even a man or woman until later.
  
  This incident was before seat belt laws. The moment that I realized that I was absolutely going through that windshield and going to die, I left this plane. 
  
  I was me but wasn't in my body. I could see and feel all of the experiences of my life thus far. I also felt an indescribable feeling of pure and overwhelming love from people in my life who were alive and who had passed such as my Grandmother. All of the past experiences that I was shown, anyone who was involved in those experiences I could also feel how they felt at the time. But the most important thing I felt was love. From these people I could feel what  they felt for me, but I could also feel the love I felt for them as well. It felt like at least 2 minutes that I was somewhere else feeling that love is the most important part of life, but it was actually only a second or two. I never saw a light or a tunnel. 
  
  When I came back to this plane, I saw that our car and the other cars were moving sideways. My friend never turned the wheel. I could see the other driver's hands on the wheel and he didn't swerve either.  The 2 cars actually parted by themselves it seemed. We just missed each other by maybe an inch or two and we were not struck. I remember the car to our right side of us swerved right and hit the overpass, we were just started to go under it. Everybody ahead of us was off the road, pulled over or crashed. I saw a couple of semis overturned in the median grass.
  
  My friend didn't stop as I kept telling her to pull over. I think she was in shock. 

  An elderly man with dementia had gotten a hold of the car keys. He got on the wrong way of the expressway and drove 30 miles before the police stopped him. Nobody died that day. It was absolutely unbelievable. It was never on or in the news. The only reason I found out the circumstances was because my mother worked for the State Police.

  26 years later and I still cannot talk about it without breaking down. After the FDE I had no fear of death, and still do not. But I have always worn my seat belt since that day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/31/1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Fear Death Experience  Other:   I was just a moment away from being hit head on by a person going the wrong way on the expressway.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See above

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left the physical plane

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     My experience felt like it lasted about 2 minutes but it was actually only a second or two.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't know how to answer this.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything, just felt pure unconditional love.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandmother was there, but in sort of a life review. I saw and felt everyone I had ever encountered.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I could feel myself and knew that I was somewhere else but my physical body wasn't there.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Something that I very never felt before or since. Just a super calming, overwhelming love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I have always believed in reincarnation and now knew without doubt that the highest lesson we are here to learn is love.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I never knew that a person could feel this overwhelming love.  Much more overwhelming than giving birth or watching the love of my life take his last breath.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was aware of the oneness of the universe

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes I felt the love from God too.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The most important thing in life is love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes.     Since I saw/felt my deceased grandmother I knew that our spirit lives on.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was the only focus and an indescribable feeling.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom right afterwards, she believes and has had a kind of similar experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     It was absolutely real to me, I can't explain it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1md_fde.html