{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mb_nde.html","mytitle":"MB NDE 3743","mylang":"de"}
          	        MB NDE 3743  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					MB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1741 MB NDE 3743  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience occurred during anesthesia (narcosis) that I received after the birth of my son. The birth was normal, but very painful and I suffered a great deal. The truth is acute suffering marked my whole pregnancy. I really wanted the anesthesia because I needed something to calm me down after such a traumatic event. As soon as I was given the anesthesia, I started walking through a rose-colored tunnel clothed in a very soft dress. I perceived that I was in another dimension, a parallel universe. I heard loud, strong noises. I had many sensations and my senses were sharpened. The light was different from normal, whiter and more brilliant. The 'air' seemed very heavy, but I felt my body to be very light. Yes, there was a lightness because I seemed to practically float in this tunnel and from time to time, I felt the floor and the walls. It was pleasing and I felt sort of like a child.

Afterwards, the tunnel turned a light yellow and I saw a female 'being' appear in order to accompany me. We finally arrived at a light and then a room appeared - sort of a control room - where there were people behind one-way mirrors. I heard someone say that I had arrived at a parallel universe at a HIGHER LEVEL OF CONSCIOUSNESS where it was possible to see other people living normally upon the earth. That was a great revelation. The secret to the universe was presented to me. The secret is that there is another world where things really are real, where truth, goodness and harmony exist. Life is not limited to the earth experience. Earth life is only a small part of the whole. Those who earn the right are shown eternal life. That was the essence.

At a certain moment, I saw God. He was 'something', a powerful presence, but I don't know exactly how to explain it. He told me he knew of the many sacrifices I had made in bringing my children into the world and he had me remember each one of them. Then he told me that my faith had been tested, that I was a good person and that I should rest, do good deeds and that I could return to my native land. I was greatly relieved. And also, God told me I would be eternally blessed.

Afterwards, a voice asked me, 'You can choose to die or return to live on the earth. Which do you choose?' I hesitated for a few seconds because life on earth seemed far too painful. There was even a countdown. Time was running out and I realized that if I didn't decide rapidly, I wouldn't have a second chance to return to earth. I decided to continue living. I gathered all my strength, all my focus and energy to return. They were a few minutes of great effort and anguish, fear of not being able to return in a state of normal consciousness. The struggle was so real, so strenuous, that I can say I practically 'sweated'.

During the transition back between the two worlds, I could see the birthing room, the equipment, the lights, the ceiling, and I heard the people but my perceptions were very different from normal. Similar to a hallucination. After about ten minutes of altered perceptions, I was finally able to regain consciousness. I said something to show myself that I had for sure returned as normal.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  28.11.2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Other Estresse extremo devido ao nascimento de um filho não-desejado  There was the risk that I would 'die'.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I made the decision to return to my physical form. I had to struggle. It was a conscious effort, strenuous and very real.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space was different. It was if it were heavier, denser. As far as time is concerned I don't remember well.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My field of vision was much greater than normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sounds were very loud, which gave me the sensation of the sounds being very close to my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a long tunnel, but not straight. It seemed more like a large conduit filled with corners. I was dressed in a very soft fabric of lovely colors, like what one finds in baby's nurseries: rose and yellow. I remember very well feeling my feet touching that soft cloth. It was a feeling of comfort.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     First, I saw a being in the tunnel who accompanied me to the place where the light was. It was a female being. Afterwards I saw several 'beings' and heard a message that said, 'Welcome! You are at the center of the world, the place where things really happen. The center of universal consciousness. We are here watching out for everybody. This is a unique time, an opportunity to know about the parallel universe.' I didn't know any of them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But since the tunnel was full of corners and curves, I only arrived at the light at the end of my journey.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There were many. First, I felt comforted, full of joy in an atmosphere as that of an infant. But, at the same time, it seemed a bit strange being in that 'new' infantile world. Afterwards, I felt relief by being welcomed by 'friends'. I also felt happiness learning about the 'eternal universe' or the 'real world'. Recognition and validation were my emotions when I heard God's message. When I was called upon to decide whether or not to return to the earth, I felt unsure, anguish, because I really didn't want to return to my life of suffering. But, I decided to do it because I felt I should continue living.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I heard a message affirming that I would have a blessed life from that moment on.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a very detailed sensation of revelation, a moment of EPIPHANY. I was told that there was another reality that is true and eternal. This reality in which we live is only a phase, something temporary and not essential. There was much goodness and harmony there, peace and calm. But I also had the sensation that I had a mission: to bring my child into the world even if it cost me my own life. I was congratulated for having brought him to earth, despite so much suffering.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was able to accept the birth of my son much better.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   What makes it difficult to describe is the enormous quantity of associated impressions: textures, smells, the environment, the sensation of my 'body,' the colors, and sounds. Not only that, but the fact of not knowing how to define the beings that I encountered there made talking about it difficult. There were people, not necessarily 'beings of light', but they were immaterial, or to be clearer: they were in another physical manifestation.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most significant time was when I found myself with God. I heard him say that I had found His approval and proven that I am a daughter of God - I am a good person because I decided to bring my child into the world no matter the price. And the price of doing this was very high.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After an hour had passed when I asked my midwife if there had been any kind hallucinogen in the anesthesia. I didn't tell her any of the details, only that I had gone into a trance. She was very direct and said that was normal. A day later, I told a little bit to my mother and after about a week, I told my therapist. They reacted skeptically; telling me that they thought what I experienced was the product of my unconscious state.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     That what happened was real. I have no doubt about that. But I don't know whether the experience only happened in my mind or if I was really transported to another place.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes. You could ask if the sensation of reality changed during the NDE itself. For example, if the person ever had the impression that some parts of the experience were more subjective or ethereal while other parts seemed more objective and concrete.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mb_nde.html