{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mayumi_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Mayumi T NDE 6474","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mayumi T NDE 6474  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mayumi T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3178 Mayumi T NDE 6474  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I saw a light that looked like a moon, and it was shining down on me.  My body started floating slowly toward the light, high in the air.  After I entered the light, I was greeted by a huge garden full of yellow flowers – and the sky was colored pink like a sunset.  Everything was just so warm and fragrant, I felt very safe.  But not only safe – I was very deeply moved by the loveliness of the flower garden – so beautiful!

I felt a gentle wind, and also I felt my feet walking along the stony streets, touching many flowers as I passed.  I came to a little country house (Japanese style).  I had to go over to it and see what was inside!  My two uncles were there, and they welcomed me through the first floor balcony.  Then we had some beer together, all laughing with each other.  One of them said to me, 'You have to go back where you belong.  Your dad is waiting for you there.'

Then I felt like someone was pulling me back by my shoulders.

In that same second, I found myself back in the hospital, watching myself lying in bed.  I saw a nurse and a doctor standing next to my body.  They were pumping my chest with an electronic shocker.  Then I woke up in the hospital bed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I heard, 'I'm dead,' and then I fell asleep.  (I was with a girlfriend in a taxi cab.)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Just my uncles taking without moving their mouths.  They were smiling and I heard them talking to me in my head.  I talked to them about my dad because they asked me about him.  They introduced themselves to me, and told me that they were my uncles who had passed away during the Second World War.  They were both pilots in kamikaze planes.  One crashed and the other one was blown up.  But they said that they forgive America and that they are happy here.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About 5 minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   It was the same.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sometimes I see a shadow or sometimes I feel like someone is touching or watching me, and then they wake me up.  I feel someone is coming before I open the front door, before people knock or ring.  I feel someone is walking behind me and I check and I see that it's a human.  But when I look again it's not there anymore.  At times I see ghosts.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm a hearing impaired person, but in the other world experience, I was not deaf at all.  I heard beautiful classic music.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It looked like a full moon shining on me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My friends and family.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a lot of love and forgiveness and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Yes, my uncle told me to go back because my dad was waiting for me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was very surprised because I did play with Ouija board, Wicca, and some Voodoo in high student time. But I was in the heaven. I met my two uncles in a small country house at yellow flowers farm mountain, there was pink sky like a sunset.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A more open mind.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     i had a crazy life.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Hell wasn't there, but heaven was.  Everyone will go only to heaven.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Told me to tell other that the heaven is real.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I wanted stay there but uncle refuse me to stay any longer.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     a lot of love. Warm. Welcomed.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I am still hearing impaired (deaf).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Communicating with my uncles.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people didn't believe me.  I won't give up telling others.  Only my dad did believe me after I came back from being dead.  I explained to him what my uncles looked like, how they laughed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it wasn't just a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      It looked like heaven.  I was surprised.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't have a body.  But I did feel myself touching the flowers and walking on the rocky streets.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I could draw pictures of it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mayumi_t_nde.html