{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1meg_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Meg A NDE 903","mylang":"de"}
          	        Meg A NDE 903  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Meg A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						373  Meg A NDE  903  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Greetings!


The hellish NDE is so graphic and atypical; I think an attached commentary is appropriate:


This NDE is among the most graphic and frightening NDE we have encountered.  It is disturbing in several aspects, thus as a service to our readers, we believe some additional comments from our perspective would be appropriate.  The individual submitting this experience authorized publication of this experience, but did not provide any contact information, thus we are unable to share our comments on her experience with her prior to posting them.  If she contacts us with any comments on the following, we will be sure to post them, if she is agreeable.


Frightening NDEs represent about fifteen percent of all NDEs we receive.  Most frightening NDEs also contain pleasant elements, and the pleasant elements of the NDE are often the majority of the experience.  The most common type of frightening NDE we encounter is a 'void' experience, where the NDEr feels emptiness or isolation, which is perceived as frightening.  The majority of 'void' NDEs we encounter are actually pleasant, with the NDEr sensing safety, love, and other positive feelings in association with the void.  Only several percent of NDEs we have encountered are 'hellish', as this NDE clearly is.  The great majority of hellish NDEs involve seeing hellish imagery apart from the NDEr, and this account is very unusual in that the NDEr was harmed as part of the experience.  It is unusual in the NDEs we have received to encounter a person who died at the same time as the NDEr, and who was present in the NDEr's experience.  This happens in this NDE, and he is in the same hellish realm as the author, and is seen as being harmed.  This is the first NDE with such a description we have ever heard of.


Regular readers of this site will quickly recognize this horrifying NDE is markedly different from the overwhelming majority of other NDEs.  Our policy at NDERF has been to share NDEs even if they do not coincide with popular or preconceived ideas about NDE.  Can this NDE be reconciled with the pattern of NDEs present in the hundreds of other NDEs posted on NDERF?  I think it can.  What research there is on frightening NDEs suggests that those that are feeling angry, guilty, or believe they will enter hell when they die are more likely to have a frightening NDE.  Both the NDEr and her friend had been arguing and had inappropriately taken a car prior to the crash.  There would be strong elements of anger and likely guilt in both of them.  In most frightening NDEs, calling out to 'God' or 'Jesus' usually results in a prompt shift away from the frightening environment the NDEr is in.  That did not happen in this NDE, though I note that when she decided to 'give up' that she left the hellish environment and returned to the tunnel.  A vital life lesson for her may be the spiritual concept of 'giving up' or 'letting go'.  A common theme of NDEs is that we have free choice, and are free to choose.  Many NDErs seeing hellish realms believe, in the NDE, that those in the hellish realms chose to go there, and can choose to leave at any time.  I think the author's friend, out of his rage, efforts at controlling (note he turned the car in his pattern of 'scaring people to shut up') and his other major issues felt this hellish realm was where he should be.  The fact that the author was in a tunnel and suddenly reversed directions suggests to me that it was important for her (by her choice at some level) to see and be a part of the consequence of the choice her friend made.  She alludes to the tunnel as being like 'some weird drug', and her relation with the car driver suggests she likely had some major life issues of her own that she needed to confront.  A Loving Divine being could have co-created the elements of this NDE if it was the best (and maybe only) way for her to have the understandings to make major changes in her life, which her account indicates she has done.  Lest we judge the author of this NDE, I would propose that it is possible the Divine may co-create frightening NDEs only with the most courageous of those on earth, whose courage leads them to co-create a frightening experience that will have the best chance of helping them grow in their earthly journey.


The author became a Christian after the experience.  What research there is on frightening NDEs suggests the religious background (or lack of religious background) of the NDEr at the time of the experience does not correlate with having a frightening NDE.  Among the NDErs who have shared their NDE with us, there is a very slight, but statistically significant, tendency for the NDEr to have a more liberal religious belief after the NDE.  If anyone has any insights on this NDE, please consider posting them on the NDERF Bulletin Board.  We can all learn from this remarkable NDE.  We are deeply appreciative to the author for courageously sharing her experience.


Sincerely, Dr. Jeff Long


Experience description:


I prefer to remain anonymous because of what I have suffered at the hands of those who do not believe me.


It was about two years ago, I remember it like it was yesterday.  I was getting into my friend Gareth's car.


It was his dad's car and he wasn't supposed to have it in the first place.  I don't know how he got hold of it.  I remember he had been drinking earlier that night.  I knew he wasn't supposed to be driving it but I remember really needing a lift home because it was late.  We had been arguing the whole trip about something, stupid and in a moment of rage, he slammed onto the accelerator, hard and tried to do a U-turn. Now that I think about it, I remember it was his way of scaring people into shutting up; he was nuts like that. Gosh, next thing I knew I was being wheeled into a big room on a stretcher. My chest and head felt like I'd been punched in places with metal or something.


The next part is really, really vivid.  I definitely remember this. Seconds later, I started to float out of my body and go through this weird tunnel of light, like I was on some weird drug or something. I didn't know where I was going but I knew that I couldn't control where I was being sucked to. I couldn't stop or turn or anything. Everything seemed fine.  For a split second, I thought I was headed towards heaven but suddenly something happened. I stopped dead, in this tunnel and like a bolt of lightning I started to fall, faster and faster and faster.


I felt like I had literally just dropped vertically and was headed towards this sort of black hole. It was so dark I felt I could cut it with a knife.  Still falling, I began to hear screams, cries, agonizing pain, horrible, horrible laughing and the most putrid smell you could ever imagine, then the blackness turned into fire, and I was falling towards a huge furnace. Fire began to consume me. I started screaming. I didn't know where my sound was going but I knew I was screaming hard. Landing on my back, I suddenly crashed to what seemed like rocks and felt a horrible pain all over my body or whatever this new form was.


Opening my eyes I suddenly realized I wasn't alone because creatures, things of some sort of distorted form started to grasp at me, one by one they grabbed me and started to drag me towards what seemed like huge black gates. I began kicking and screaming, yelling at the top of my lungs for Allah or Buddha or God -- whoever I could remember hearing about in Religious Education classes to help me, but still nothing came. I remember one giant creature began to rip at the skin on my back with what seemed like his sharp nails, another began to tear at my hair so hard I felt the urge to throw up.


Another kicked me down and started standing on my chest laughing, teasing me about personal issues he seemed to know about me. Such as my mother dying at birth, my sister in prison and my friend Gareth driving the car that had killed me. I so remember the smell, it was so vile like rotting flesh and burnt hair. Their raspy laughs and taunts at me were almost drowned out by the roar of the flames around me. I suddenly saw before me people running and screaming, a group of children no younger than twelve years old crying each one being terrorized and literally pulled apart by these malevolent beings. I definitely remember suddenly seeing Gareth, (the guy in the car with me) -- he was hung upside down with nails driven into his hands and feet, almost like Jesus on the Cross (I had remembered reading about that in class a few weeks ago). The creatures began whipping him simultaneously, all chanting in a language I really didn't understand. Fire had now consumed what he was nailed to and the flesh on his hands and chest and head had already begun to melt and peel. I looked at his face, he was TERRIFIED!!!! He began crying uncontrollably pleading with them to stop.


My body or soul or whatever you want to call it suddenly began to burn badly from the fire spread on this ground. I suddenly cried out again, 'God please help me.' I suddenly realized that the more I cried out God's name, the more they tried to hurt me, the angrier they got, the more agitated and frustrated they became. 'God please,' I finally begged seconds before deciding to give up and suddenly a great suction tore me from their grip and started to carry me back through the tunnel. I suddenly awoke to the sound of a female doctor's voice.


I remember her telling me that after two hours of resuscitation I had recovered but Gareth had not. Apparently as they were trying to revive him his heart gave way, it just gave up the fight. His time of death had been confirmed half an hour before mine. After months of therapy, trying to describe all I had seen my friend I met in college, a Pentecostal Christian, explained to me what I had encountered. She counseled me for about two weeks telling me scriptures in the Bible that described Hell and outlined everything I had seen. And then one day, there and then, right in the middle of my College Campus, I gave my heart to Jesus. To this day I swear I can still smell that rotten smell of burnt flesh and burnt hair. I used to actually get feverish every time I think about Gareth, and where he might be to this day. I still believe I know where he is, and where I don't want his little brother to be, who is now fourteen years old. Sharing my testimony with friends and family who didn't believe in 'all this religious stuff' still claim to this day that, in their opinion, I've seen one or two many horror movies. But this was no movie, there were no credits, no logo's at the end of it. NO! This was REAL!!!!


All who read this I pray please let this be a warning to all those who have not accepted Jesus Christ into their hearts. In my near death experience I saw what waits for those who reject Jesus. I've seen the horror that is more real than any film or show could ever be. AND I PRAISE GOD to this day that he gave me that second chance so that now I can work for him. For all those who aren't sure please don't wait until it's too late to find out the truth I did. In Jesus' name call on him NOW! Don't wait -- I'm twenty-two years old, I thought I had years ahead of me before anything like this would happen. I was very nearly wrong. God Bless all who read this and believe in God and his Precious Son. Amen!!


Additional Commentary by Rev. John Price:


As Dr. Jeff Long points out, it is 'most graphic and frightening.' The description of 'Gareth' in the account is in keeping with what I've seen in common with the few people I've talked to who had hellish experiences: he was mean, really mean.


I suspect most people who've returned from such hellish experiences would not want to talk about it because of how it reflects upon themselves, as to what a bad person they had been.


I do know people who've not made a personal decision to follow Jesus Christ who have had the beautiful experience, but they were not mean and did live the loving way Jesus commanded us in the Gospels: 'Love one another as I have loved you,' the only 'Commandment' he gave.


The anonymous author of this account asks us to accept Jesus, give our hearts to him, and I would say to those who've not had a positive experience with 'religion,' living that loving life is what Jesus was asking.


But the anonymous author did contradict herself on one point: it's never too late. She even asked God for help while in Hell and it came, and others have related this as well. She 'gave up' her own attempts to control and then was brought out of it.


I think she needs to pray for forgiveness for Gareth, for him to ask God for help, for forgiveness. Prayer works, even at that point after someone's death. God's will for us is health, joy, peace, love. As she described him, Gareth lived the opposite of all this. It's never too late to pray for him and others who are in their own torment.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     accident   car accidentCar overturned and crashed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My soul started to flow as if towards space, but it wasn't space.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very, very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to crash and fade slowly.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Growling, gnashing, mostly screaming and crying.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Only for a little while.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Creatures.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Only the light from the tunnel around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Was in a hellish location.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Sort of, more like memory of things I had seen previously.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   It was sudden.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am now a Christian.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Panic attack.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best -- getting out.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most don't believe me -- only those who believe in God and know the Bible seem to.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Nightmares -- lots of them before I became a Christian.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Thank God for my second chance PRAISE HIS PRECIOUS NAME!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It's fine as it is.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1meg_a_nde.html