{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maurice_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Maurice B NDE 4687","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maurice B NDE 4687  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maurice B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2273 Maurice B NDE 4687  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I played a football game with a loose shin pad. When I came home in the evening, my shinbone was a bit red, itching and hurting. I went to sleep and after about an hour, the pain woke me up and was getting unbearable. I took a painkiller and waited until morning to go to the hospital. My shinbone was very red and was hurting terribly. At the hospital, the doctor told me it was a second-degree burn, bandaged it and asked me to change it at night. I proceeded to go buy a box of bandages and went to work (suffering from lack of sleep), the pain was still there but bearable. In the evening, on the way back from work, the pain suddenly came back, I couldn't stand my pants and I had difficulty walking. When I got home, I went straight to the bathroom to change the bandage. I undressed and tried to pull on the bandage but the burn had dried up and was stuck to it. 

When I pulled off a tiny bit of the bandage, the pain went straight to my heart. I was not feeling well and decided to put my bandaged leg in the bath to try to soften the scabs. I tried many times to pull on the bandage and after a while got up on my feet but was not doing well.

I could hear myself calling to my wife and then, I emerged from my body, which was crumbled on the floor like a blanket. I was in absolute darkness and I was coming near a bright and intense white light. Suddenly, I came back into my body and it felt as if I was sucked back in it. The showerhead had fallen into the bath, the water was sprinkling on my lower abdomen and it felt as if I was urinating on myself. I woke up, lying on the floor, with my head against my chest. My wife turned off the water so it wouldn't flood the bathroom.

She asked me how I was doing and tried to get me up but I could hardly move, I was too weak. My wife called the fire department; they quickly arrived and sat me up on my bed. Because I was so weak and they worried I had hurt my back when I fell, they took me to the hospital. While on the way there I was very cold (and it was summer time), they covered me up with blankets, turned on the emergency lights and sped up. At the hospital, I felt neglected and also felt like the doctor wasn't taking me seriously. I was under the impression that he thought I was lying. The nurses had difficulty taking off the bandage and wanted to rip it out in one shot and then put a new one on, which I refused. They kept me for the night because I had lost consciousness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The speed at which I was travelling and narrow vision towards the light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I mentioned in the experience description, the light was bright and intense and I was moving fast towards it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lightness and absolute well being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I came very close to the light, as if I was going to cross something before being sucked back in my body.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   pas besoin de la religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am more certain of my position.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'l'homme par la pensée universelle est au centre de tout, il nourrit cette pensée et la fait vivre. C'est un support sans lequelle la pensée universelle ne pourrait éxister'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am more certain of my position.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   To this day I am still a bit lost about it. I am waiting to understand why I came back; I didn't come back for nothing.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I haven't thought about this before, I will examine it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am under the impression that I was sent back into my body because I have something to do but it is confusing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     But right after, I didn't think much of it. I must say that it's after a while that this experience makes sense.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I understand it and it helped me built a certain understanding of our mind and body: the brain is a transmitter and receiver and our soul is a sphere of universal thoughts. Each individual follows their abilities and the quality of their brain is situated on a point on the sphere. Therefore, depending where the quality of their brain is located in regards to the middle of the sphere, the sensitivity will be slightly different. More research needs to be done regarding the study of magnetism.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I answer this survey, it is to meet other people that went through the same thing I have been through.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       More and more, magnetism is under attack by technology, dolphins throw themselves on beaches, negativity keeps growing. All of this might be linked together.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maurice_b_nde.html