{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matthieu_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Matthieu M NDE 5220","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matthieu M NDE 5220  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matthieu M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2768 Matthieu M NDE 5220  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was nighttime. I was sleeping next to my wife, and at about 2:00 in the morning, I needed to go to the bathroom to urinate. I sat up on the edge of the bed, but could not manage to stand. I think I lost consciousness. Then, I saw myself lying on the bed, with my wife shaking me, trying to bring me back to life.

However, I had no such desire. I was floating in a white light, but a white, which is unknown on this Earth. In front of me, the light became more intense, drawing me towards it. I was relaxed and felt wonderfully well. I didn't want to come back at all. Yet, after a while, I heard my wife's cries and came back to the real world. This experience had lasted only five or ten minutes, but when I was back inside myself, I felt extremely tired, with a feeling of nausea.

Next morning I made an appointment with a cardiologist, who could only see me around midday. He found nothing unusual, except that at that time, that is, ten hours after the event, my heart was registering a pulse of only thirty-two beats per minute.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    L'experience s'est passee pendant la nuit sans aucun symptome auparavant  Other Aucun evenement particulier avant l'EMI

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was continuously aware of what was going on in the room.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was continuously aware of what was going on in the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The white light had no limits, and I could see the room, but without walls.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I perceived the same things, but through this white light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard all the same sounds, but in a muffled way.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The light was in front of me, increasing in intensity, and seemed to come from a tunnel - but I stopped before I got that far.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See my descriptions above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt perfectly at rest, with a profound sense of wellbeing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholique non pratiquant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholique non pratiquant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes What has changed is my relationship with death. I lost a son from cancer five years ago. Of course there was, and still is, great pain at his passing over, but now I am convinced that he went on to a better world.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   What I saw is difficult to describe in human words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most important benefit I have derived from the experience is that, until that day, I had a fear of death. Since then, I have no more fears - I look on death as a passage to a better life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was not alone at the time of the experience. The cardiologist was also made aware. I have spoken to my family too, and certain friends, but no one has been able to explain it. I have had a slight feeling of being looked at as an 'extra-terrestrial.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Shortly after it happened, I saw the experience as 'definitely real'. I lived it as a real experience. I think that not being alone made it more clear to me that it was real. I believe that at that time, I had a heart problem, which brought me to a brush with death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Currently, I see the experience as 'definitely real'. I am still certain about the reality of what I went through that day. I retain in perfect clarity all the memories of what happened, and when I think about it now, I see over again every minute of what occurred.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matthieu_m_nde.html