{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__odonnell___dangerous_ghosts.pdf","mytitle":"Dangerous Ghosts","mylang":"de"}
ELLIOTT
O’DONNELL
DANGEROUS
GHOSTS
Ghosts are not generally supposed
to be dangerous ; but here the
author shows that such a supposition
is quite erroneous. There are in­
visible, intangible, nameless forces
and influences which threaten human
sanity and morals. Some ghosts are
violent and endanger life and limb.
Here we read of houses with vam-
pirish, supernatural entities that suck
the vitality of people who encounter
them ; staircases and corridors of
dread ; attics and cellars haunted
by terrifying apparitions ; cross­
roads haunted by the familiars of
witches and the ghosts of criminals ;
woods and trees that harbour spirits
inimical to human beings and
animals ; hoodoo and cursed places
and people ; poltergeists that hurl
things at people ; phantoms of
lovely women that lure men to
danger and death ; possessing and
obsessing spirits.
The hauntings are not confined to
one country, they are widespread,
and include places in Great Britain,
Eire, the Dominions, and foreign
lands.
From “The New Mysteries of London”
(.Illustration by PHIZ)
DANGEROUS GHOSTS
by
ELLIOTT O’DONNELL
2nd Impression
RIDER AND COMPANY
Hutchinson House, Stratford Place, London, W .i
MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND BOMBAY CAPE TOWN NEW YORK TORONTO
First published November 1954
Reprinted . January 1935
A ll rights reserved
Printed in Great Britain
by The Anchor Press, Ltd.,
Tiptree, Essex
To
N O R A
C O N T E N T S
Preface Page n
THE INVISIBLE DANGER
The Unseen Danger 15
The Menace of Blackness 20
The Menace of the Indefinable 23
Hoodoo 26
The Candle 29
HOUSES OF DREAD IN GREAT BRITAIN
The Phantom Ape ofHampstead 35
A Cardiff Haunting 36
A Newcastle Haunting 38
The House of the Crazy Fancies 41
The Phantom Butler 48
The Old House of Urrard 50
Edinburgh Ghosts 53
The Strange Experience of a Minister 56
A Haunted Inn 58
Two Haunted Houses 60
The Haunted Corridor 62
The Leering Death’s-head 63
The Evil Countess 64
NOISY AND VIOLENT GHOSTS
Noisy and Violent Ghosts 69
Christmas and Noisy Ghosts 73
7
C O N T E N T S
THE VENGEANCE OF GHOSTS
The Vengeance of Ghosts Page 79
The Vengeance of Ghosts (Continued) 80
Haunted Graves and Coffins 82
ISLAND, SEA AND CAVE HAUNTINGS
Isle of Man Horrors 87
Nasty Sea Phantoms 89
More Nasty Sea Ghosts 94
The Haunted Orkneys 9^
The Moaning Cave 99
The Black Cave of Death 102
HAUNTED HILLS, MOORS AND VALLEYS
Hill and Moor Ghosts 107
The Eildon Hills n o
The Pentlands and Haunted Churches 112
Haunted Bridges 115
The Brockley Combe Ghosts 119
The Mysteries of Saddell and Neidpath Glen 122
The Mocking Ghost of Whittingdon Common 124
UNHOLY LOVE
Evil Love 129
POSSESSION, OBSESSION AND POLTERGEISTS
Possession 135
Perkes the Obsessed 140
Riders from Hell 143
Possession and Poltergeists 147
C O N T E N T S 9
DANGEROUS CONTINENTAL GHOSTS
The Girl in the Coffin Page 153
The Grey House of Horror 154
The Man in Flannels 162
DANGEROUS AMERICAN GHOSTS
Terror in the Far West 169
A Haunted Family 172
The Ghosts of Whooping Hollow 174
A Ghost Embraces 177
ELEMENTALS AND SEMI-PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
Fantastic and Dangerous Spirits 181
The Shapeless Horror near Braemar 185
The Monster of the Morar Mound 186
The Horror of the Pool 190
Some North-country Hauntings 192
Homicidal Ghosts 194
Very Unusual Hauntings 197
TERRIFYING PHENOMENA
Fearsome Heads 201
The Death’s-head of Mary King’s Close 205
A Phantom Skull Haunting 206
Summary 207
'
PREFACE
The contents of this volume are very comprehensive; they
include a great variety of ghostly phenomena that are physically,
mentally and morally dangerous.
Wherever possible the source of my authority is stated.
T H E U N SEEN D A NG ER
T he worst hauntings are often those in which nothing is visualized
and only sensed; where atmospheres harbour baleful forces and
influences that are of deadly danger to the morality, mentality and
even life of the people who experience them.
Such forces and influences may be supernatural, or may be due
to the strong emotional thoughts of people long dead or still living.
It is conceivable that not only the atmosphere but the walls and
furniture of a house may become impregnated for an indefinite
period with thoughts and vibrations, and under certain at present
unknown conditions give out a kind of aura which affects people
endowed with a peculiarly sensitive and receptive mentality;
that is to say, people known to psychical researchers as sensitives.
Dr. Luys, an eminent French scientist, and Professor d’Arsonval
have agreed that such a theory is feasible.
Sensitives may be conscious of the evil in a house directly they
enter it, or they may live in it for a considerable time without being
in the least degree aware ofthe effect that the evil in the atmosphere,
walls, or furniture is having on them. Individuals with a natural
proclivity to evil are of course the most likely to be affected by a
baleful atmosphere, but not infrequently it requires a supreme effort
on the part of good people to remain unaffected by such an atmo­
sphere.
An instance of this is recorded in the memoirs of Bishop
Macllwaine, a well-known American prelate.1 It happened in 1869,
when he was staying in his father’s house in New Jersey.
“I made a rule,” he writes, “of going each evening at the
setting of the sun to my chamber for prayer. One afternoon, as
that time approached, I was sitting in the parlour with some
company that had just come in. Presently I said to myself, ‘The
sun is going down, go to your room.’ I waited for a very short
time, and was conscious that, as I waited, the disposition to go
decreased. I said to myself, ‘I had better go at once,’ and rose
and went. I had no sooner got out of the parlour into the hall,
whence I was to ascend the staircase, ere an indescribable dread
came over me, as if some mysterious agency of terror was
1 The Wonder Gatherer, edited by Jessie Young.
!5
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
resisting me. I began the ascent by force. I took hold of the
banister and dragged myself up. By the time I had reached the
first landing (my room was on the second story) I was so over­
powered with dread that I stopped. I did not dare to go any
further. All I knew was that something, some power, some
darkness, some unutterable dread was upon me and before me.
“ I pondered for a moment and then went on to the head of
the stairs. There I stood again and thought whether I dared go
on. My room was at the end of a passage. I pushed forward, and
got hold of the handle of the door. The dread increased. It
seemed a horror of darkness. I stood for a moment deliberating
whether I dared open the door. I opened it and rushed to the
chair at which I was accustomed to kneel. At the opposite side
of the room I knelt, and in a few broken sentences prayed two or
three times, looking behind me, as if I expected to see some
being there. Directly I got up, all my dread ceased. I was
drenched with perspiration, my limbs shook, my nerves were
thoroughly shaken, and all the next day the physical effect was
upon me. For thirty-six hours my nerves did not recover. I
was in good health and spirits prior to this most unpleasant
experience. Nothing of the sort had ever happened to me before,
and I have never again had a similar experience. I am sure that
my dread and intense horror were due to the presence in the
house of a diabolical spirit.”
It is easy to be sceptical and say the good bishop was at the time
in a low state of nerves, and the victim of a very morbid and
harrowing imagination. But he asserts that he was in good spirits
and in a normal state of health.
One can only of course theorize as to what was the cause of his
strange experience. Rejecting an explanation on natural grounds,
it might possibly have been due, as he believed, to the presence of a
Satanic spirit in the house, or, the conditions being right, to contact
with the harboured thoughts of a former very wicked occupant of
the house. Either theory seems to me to be equally applicable.
Another authentic case of an invisible, intangible evil something
in the atmosphere of a room occurred some years ago in Ireland.
Student after student who slept in a room in a well-known
Roman Catholic college either cut his throat or threw himself
out of the window. One student, after staying one night in the
room, asked the Principal of the college to give him another room.
T H E I N V I S I B L E D A N G E R *7
and declared that if he remained any longer in the room he would
commit suicide. He said that directly he entered the room he felt
singularly depressed, and that every now and then he experienced
a strong urge to kill himself. It was only by the exertion of great
will-power that he refrained.
His emphatic assertion that the atmosphere of the room was
impregnated with evil impressed the authorities of the college
to such a degree that he was transferred to other quarters at once,
and the room in which he had such an unpleasant experience was
forthwith kept permanently sealed.
It will probably be argued that the desire on the part of the
student to destroy himself was due to his having been told about
the suicides, but the college authorities seem to have taken particular
care that the student should not be told about them, and when he
was subsequently interrogated he asserted that he had never heard
of them.
Could the highly emotional thoughts of the first suicide in the
room have become embedded in the room, and produced a kind
of aura capable of being transmitted to persons who occupied the
room subsequently, even afflicting them with the same mental
sufferings and imparting to them the same desire to kill themselves?
Such a theory seems to me to be quite feasible. But what caused
the first suicide in the room? Was it the mere desire of a former
occupant of the room to do away with himself; was the dead
prompted by an evil spirit attracted in some curious way to the
college; or had he harboured a suicidal tendency before he came to
the college?
If the other suicides were merely imitative and not due to
his transmitted thoughts, one must assume that the self-killers
all had a previous proclivity to suicide. Such a thing is hardly
probable.
A similarly haunted room is mentioned by Dr. Nichols in
his book Supramundane Facts in the Life of the Rev. J. B. Fergusson.
He writes thus:
“A lady of my acquaintance became suddenly very unhappy
by the simple fact of having gone to live in a house which was
really quite pleasant and convenient, and the feeling of moral
depression, which invaded her, attained an excessive degree,
when she went into the best room of the house. If she persisted in
remaining there she felt an irresistible impulse to throw herself
B
i8 D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
out of the window. On the other hand, as soon as she went out
and got into the street, the sentiment of depression, with its
sombre thoughts and impulses towards suicide, disappeared
entirely, to return at once when she went indoors. Under such
an obsession the lady had to remove to another house.
“I was informed of the fact,” Dr. Nichols continues, “and
desirous ofclearing up the mystery, I started an enquiry concern­
ing the previous inhabitants of the dwelling. It was not long
before I found out that it had been occupied by a gentleman
whose wife, afflicted with suicidal mania, had thrown herself
head first from the window of the best room, and was killed on
the spot.”
Dr. Nichols wonders if the emotional thoughts of the lady who
committed suicide could have produced an aura sufficiently strong
to be transmitted to the lady who left the house owing to the
suicidal urge which she experienced when in the best room.
A certain spot on the Durdham Downs overlooking the Avon
Gorge at Clifton, Bristol, has witnessed many suicides. Why this
particular spot has been selected for a plunge to death is a mystery.
There is nothing remarkable about it; nothing to distinguish it in
any way from other spots on the cliffs. It cannot be merely the
fascination of height, because other spots on the cliffs are equally
elevated, if not higher.
The imitation theory might account for some of the deaths
but not all, since some of the self-destroyers have been strangers
in the district; they had never been on the Durdham Downs prior to
putting an end to themselves, and even if they had heard of the
suicides could hardly have located the fatal spot without guidance.
But who or what guided them? So far as was known no living
person. WBat, then?
It was in the hope of getting a clue to the mystery that I stayed
a night at the suicide spot on the Downs one late summer evening
four years ago. I had with me a friend from London. The Downs
are a favourite evening resort in the summer for Bristolians, and
up to nearly midnight there were cars along the road skirting
the cliffs and loving couples sitting under the trees. After midnight
the Downs became lonely and deserted, peopled only by the dark
shadows of the trees and bushes.
The silence was eerie. As the minutes passed, the sense of
solitude and desertion intensified. A little after two o’clock my
T H E IN V IS I B L E D A N G E R i g
friend declared that he did not feel able to remain there any
longer, so we came away.
We did not see or hear anything supernatural during our vigil
but we sensed a very subtle, evil, magnetically attractive presence
in the atmosphere, and could well understand that it might prove
extremely harmful and even dangerous to some people.
In the case of the haunted cell in the Fourth Precinct Police
Station of New Orleans, in which an old woman named Ann
Murphy had hanged herself, it was definitely proved that several
suicides which occurred in the cell after her death were instigated
by her ghost.1 What prompted Ann Murphy to hang herself was
apparently never ascertained. She was not known to have evinced
any suicidal tendency prior to her occupying the cell, or while
she was in it. Although no tragedy had occurred in the cell before
Ann Murphy’s advent to it, it was rumoured to have been haunted
for a long time, so that it was quite possible her suicide was due to
the prompting of some very evil supernatural entity.
In some houses there is an indefinable, mysterious something
in the atmosphere that endangers the morals; in others a something
that endangers the mentality; and in others a something that
endangers the morality and mentality. Maybe it is the lingering,
harboured thoughts of a former occupant, or very possibly an
invisible spirit entity.
In a flat in a house in a street adjoining Berkeley Square
tenant after tenant took to drink; in a flat in a neighbouring street
tenant after tenant was cited as a co-respondent in a divorce
suit.
Some people with whom I was acquainted when I lived in
London took an unfurnished flat near Shepherd’s Market. There
was nothing apparently wrong with it. It was on the first floor
and self-contained; the rooms, which had been redecorated, were
bright and of a fair size; there were up-to-date conveniences.
The other people in the building did not disturb them, they seemed
quite harmless and inoffensive, and yet they were far from happy
in the flat. They felt a corruptive, seductive influence in the atmo­
sphere, and they constantly had the most unpleasant and revolting
dreams. Although they never saw or heard anything of a ghostly
nature they felt sure that the flat was very badly haunted.
Their aversion to it increased to such an extent that they
left it, long before their lease had expired. Their curiosity regarding
1Vide the New Orleans Times, November, 1872.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
the history of the house led to them making enquiries in the neigh­
bourhood, and they learned that it had formerly been a brothel.
Possibly their very unpleasant experience in the flat was due to the
lingering, affecting thoughts of the keeper and frequenters of the
brothel; or possibly the flat was actually haunted by the earthbound
spirit of someone closely associated with the brothel.
I had a similar experience in an apartment house in Moscow
Road, London, and have no doubt that had I made enquiries as to
the past history of the house, I should have discovered that it had
once been of ill fame.
It is always advisable to learn something about the history of a
flat or house before occupying it, in case of lurking danger in the
atmosphere.
T H E M ENACE OF BLACKNESS
In t h e previous chapter I have alluded to hauntings by an in­
visible, intangible force or influence in a house or place that en­
dangers the mentality. I heard of such a haunting when I was a
student in Dublin.
A relative of mine told me that there was a very badly haunted
room in a house near the Waterloo Road. He said that people who
occupied the room for any length of time invariably became partially
or entirely demented.
He slept in the room for three successive nights and refused
to remain in it any longer. He said that he found the room horribly
depressing, and that whenever he slept he had the most harassing
and worrying dreams.
The following account of a haunting which was well calculated
to affect the mentality of any nervous person is related by Mr.
J. Westwood in Notes and Queries:1
“In a lonely neighbourhood, on the verge of Enfield Chace,
stands an old house much beaten by wind and weather. It was
inhabited, when I knew it, by two elderly people, maiden sisters,
with whom I had some acquaintance, and who once invited me
to dine with them and meet a circle of local guests.
“I well remember my walk thither. It led me up a steep
1April 5, 1873.
T H E I N V I S I B L E D A N G E R 21
r
ascent of oak avenue, opening out at the top on what was called
the Ridge-road of the Chace. It was the close of a splendid
autumn afternoon; the year was dying with more than its usual
pomp, ‘wrapping itself in its gorgeous robes, like a grand
Caesar’. On reaching my destination the sun had already
dipped below the horizon, and the eastern front of the house
projected an eerie black shadow at its foot. I crossed the
threshold with repugnance. Having some changes to make in
my attire, a servant led me to an upper room, where she left me.
“No sooner had she gone than I became conscious of a
peculiar sound in the room, a sort of shuddering sound, as of
suppressed dread. It seemed close to me. I gave little heed to
it at first, setting it down for the wind in the chimney or a
draught from the half-open door, but, moving about the room, I
perceived that the sound moved with me. Whichever way I
turned it followed me. I went to the furthest extremity of the
room—it was there also.
“Beginning to feel uneasy and being quite unable to account
for the singularity, I completed my toilet in haste and descended
to the drawing-room, hoping that I should leave the uncom­
fortable sound behind me—but not so. It was on the landing, on
the stairs; it went down with me, always the same sound of
shuddering horror, faint but audible, and always close at hand.
Even at the dinner table, when the conversation flagged, I
heard it unmistakably several times, and so near that, if there
were an entity connected with it, we were two on one chair. It
seemed to be noticed by nobody else, but it ended by harassing
and distressing me, and I was relieved to think that I had not to
sleep in the house that night.
“At an early hour, several of the guests having far to go,
the party broke up, and it was a satisfaction to me to breathe
the fresh, wholesome air of the night and feel rid at last of my
shuddering incubus.
“When I met my hosts again it was under another and
unhaunted roof. On my telling them what had occurred to me,
they smiled and said that it was perfectly true, but added that
they were so used to the sound that it had ceased to perturb
them. Sometimes, they said, it would be quiet for weeks; at
other times it followed them from room to room, from floor to
floor, pertinaciously, as it had followed me. They could give no
explanation of the phenomenon.”
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
Of what strange horror, not ended with life but perpetuated
in the limbo of invisible things, was that sound the exponent?
Although this haunting was less dangerous perhaps than the
other hauntings that I have mentioned, it was, as I have suggested,
quite capable of being harmful to very nervous and impressionable
people. To what category of ghostly phenomena this particular
phenomenon belongs no one can rightly say, but it suggests to
me the ever-restless, unhappy spirit of some poor wretch, earth-
bound, on account of the kind of life that he had led when in the
flesh and blood. The fact that Mr. Westwood’s experience was so
well corroborated hardly admits an explanation of it on hallucina­
tory grounds.
A very unpleasant supernatural phenomenon, and one which
might easily prove detrimental to the soundest mentality, is the
black pall or haze. A haunting of tills description occurred in the
family of my old nurse, always prior to a death.
She said that she was lying awake one night, trying in vain to
go to sleep, when she was conscious suddenly of something very
dreadful in the room. She summoned up courage to light the
candle, which was on the chair by the side of the bed. She saw
nothing. The door of the room was closed, and the chair, which she
had placed against it to prevent it opening—there was no lock—
was still there. As she was peering ahead of her, limb-tied and
tongue-tied, the empty space between her and the wall facing her
suddenly became infused in a sepulchral blackness that was mena­
cing and horrible.
My old nurse had the faculty of smelling death, a faculty not
uncommon in some parts of England. She smelt its presence now,,
and she knew that it presaged either her death or the death of
someone very dear to her. She was so frightened that she fainted.
When she recovered consciousness and ventured to look around her
she no longer smelt death, and the horrible phenomenal blackness
had gone. The following day she received a telegram saying that
her mother had been seized with a heart attack and had died during
the night.
Phenomenal blackness is not uncommon as a form of warning.
In a book entitled Ghostly Visitors1 Mr. Walford, an Oxford under­
graduate, says:
1Spectre Stricken. All accounts of ghostly phenomena in this book are said to
be true.
T H E I N V I S I B L E D A N G E R 23
“There is a ghost at ------ Hospital in London. A cousin
of mine is a medical student there, and he told me that he knew
when the patient operated upon was going to die, as he always
saw a black shade when in the operating ward.”
When I lived in St. Ives, Cornwall, an old inhabitant of that
town told me that he and a friend were on the Castle-an-Dinas
hilltop late one summer evening, when they both saw a pall-like
black haze appear over the broken rocks in front of them. There
was something so ominous and sinister about it that they were
frightened. It vanished as suddenly and mysteriously as it had
come, and they were quite unable to account for it.
A day or two later the friend received tidings of the death of
his twin brother. He had died just about the time the black haze
had appeared on the hilltop.
It is difficult to find any satisfactory explanation in these cases of
pall-blackness other than the supernatural.
The lonely moors and hills that constitute the hinterland of
St. Ives are much haunted, not only by the ghosts of old-world
people but by elementals, as grotesque in appearance as are the
fantastically fashioned rocks and boulders amid which they prowl
and glide at night.
T H E MENACE OF T H E IN D E FIN A B LE
T h e r e are recorded cases in which a haunting by an indefinable
Something in a house or place has been constitutionally dangerous,
wrecking the health and even causing death. An instance of a
house harbouring a supernatural phenomenon of this kind was
reported in the Press in December, 1919.
Tenant after tenant died suddenly in a house in a street in
Croydon, or quitted it hurriedly, and, as a consequentce, he house
acquired such a sinister reputation that no one cared to inhabit it.
For years it stood empty. Children hastened past it after nightfall;
dogs were never seen to enter the garden. Yet no one seemed to
know what exactly was wrong with the house; whether it was the
drains, although there had never been any complaint about them,
or rats, or whether the house was haunted.
In appearance it was just like any other house in the street;
from its exterior there was nothing to suggest that it contained
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
anything supernatural and horrible. Yet no one had lived in it
for long; they had either died or fled.
A newspaper man who heard about it determined to spend a
night there and probe the mystery of the hidden, nameless danger
to the core.
There were a few pieces of furniture in the house, and he sat in
a very dilapidated armchair in a room on the ground floor. Shortly
after midnight a feeling of sickness came over him and he was
conscious of something, void of any definite shape and indescribably
loathsome, entering the room through the closed door. He felt it
getting nearer and nearer to him until it finally enveloped him, when
he fainted. On recovering consciousness he could no longer feel
the foul presence in the room. The horror that it had inspired
was so great, however, that he lost no time in getting out of the
house. He had been in excellent health prior to his vigil in the
house, but the shock he experienced that night was so terrible that
he became seriously ill and died within a fortnight.
I did not see the newspaper accounts of his experience until a
long time after its occurrence, and when I made enquiries about
the house I was informed that it had been demolished.
People who are sceptical regarding the existence of super­
natural phenomena will no doubt suggest that the unfortunate
journalist was paranoiac and the victim of a sensorial illusion;
they will say that he knew the reputation of the house, and that
a long solitary vigil in the dark very probably excited his imagina­
tion and made him believe that he actually sensed a presence in
the room. But could mere imagination or illusion create a shock
sufficiently strong to cause the death of a young man asserted to be
in excellent health?
In an old issue of Notes and Queries1 there is a strange story of an
encounter with an indefinable dangerous supernatural phenomenon
in Somersetshire.
During the year 1840 Mr. T. stayed for several months in
Taunton. While he was there he became very friendly with Mr. S.,
a bluff, genial fox-hunter, who told him a very unusual story of
haunting in Somersetshire. Mr. S. said that when he returned home
from the local hunt after dark he often observed a central window
in an old mansion, not far from the roadside, strangely illuminated.
All the other windows were dark, but in this particular window a
wan, dreary light was visible. As he knew that no one was living in
1Vide Haunted Homes and Family Legends, by J. H. Ingram.
26 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
Sensorial illusions, technically speaking, are not mental delusions;
they only become so when they are believed to be realities. So,
in this case, if the fox-hunting squires were the victims of sensorial
illusions, they were mad, since they were convinced that the
sensations that they experienced were real. But they were not
mad. They were jolly, hearty, healthy sporting hunters. Con­
sequently the sensations which they experienced simultaneously
were not illusions but were due to some mysterious natural cause,
or to the presence in the room of an invisible, intangible, vampiric
supernatural force or entity. The eerie, phenomenal light in the
room makes the latter explanation, in my opinion, rather the more
feasible.
H O O D O O
J o h n A u b r e y , in his book Miscellanies, mentions the following
houses that were reputed to be very unlucky in his time:
The Fleece Tavern in Covent Garden was very unlucky for
homicides. A handsome brick house on the south side of Clerkenwell
Churchyard had been so unlucky for at least forty years that
nobody would venture to occupy it. No one who lived in an attrac­
tive house in Holborn ever prospered.
No third generation of a family ever remained in the Charter
House on the Mendips in Somerset, or in the Manor of Butleigh
near Glastonbury.
At the present time there is a house not far from Rugby which
has always proved unlucky to every family that lived in it; and in
an isolated spot near Caterham there is an early 18th-century
house reputed to be so hoodoo that none of the local people care to
pass by it alone after nightfall. It came into notice shortly before the
Second World War, owing to the deaths of its owner and his wife,
who were found dead in a car in the garage. There were no marks
of injury on their bodies, and it was thought, but never definitely
proved, that they had been poisoned by carbon monoxide. An
elderly man, who had lived in the neighbourhood of Caterham for
many years, told a representative of the Bristol Press that bad luck
in some form or other always overtook everyone who occupied the
old house.1
A picturesque old farmhouse in a village in Caithness acquired
1May, 1932.
T H E I N V I S I B L E D A N G E R 27
a sinister reputation in the twenties of the present century, owing to
three tragedies that occurred in it during twelve years. One owner
ofthe house shot himself. Another owner ofthe house was murdered.
After the third tragedy the house was said to be haunted by an
invisible evil spirit that urged people to commit suicide or murder.
No one ventured into the grounds of the house alone when it began
to get dusk. Dogs would not go near the place; and horses shied
and bolted if made to pass it.
A house in a suburb of Birmingham bore a very ominous
reputation for many years. No murder or suicide was known to have
taken place in it but it had witnessed a number of other tragedies.
The following were a few of them:
A lady descending a staircase in the house one day tripped over
something that she could not see, fell, and sustained such internal
injuries that she eventually died. Within a few months after her
death a servant belonging to the establishment severed an artery,
while chopping sticks for the kitchen fire, and died before a doctor
arrived. A year afterwards a boy threw a stone at the house. It
broke a window. A piece of glass struck a little girl in the face. It
did not kill her but she lost the sight of one eye.
Not long afterwards the brother of the little girl fell out of the
nursery window, and was fatally injured. So evil a reputation did
the house acquire, in consequence of these calamities, that no one
would inhabit it, and it was ultimately demolished.
Some houses look ominous. An old isolated house that was
not very far from Warwick gave one that impression. It was a
stately, sombre building, half hidden by trees, half classic, with a
large ornate Tudor porch that contrasted oddly with the windows,
which belonged to different periods, some of them Tudor and
others dating from the days of Dutch William. The house had a
malign, unhappy air and looked haunted; and so it was, but by
no visible ghost.
It was just an unlucky house, a house that engendered mis­
fortune on whoever inhabited it. No one knew why. So far as was
known it had witnessed no grave tragedy, nor had any curse ever
been pronounced on it. Yet the moment a sensitive crossed the
threshold he experienced a forebodement and sensed a harboured,
supernatural, harassing element in the atmosphere.
Some of the occupants of the house became bankrupt; others
had very unhappy marriages. Loved ones died in the house under
very distressing circumstances. No one ever lived tranquilly in
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
the house. In the end it was pulled down, mainly because it was
so unlucky.1
There is a corner in a room in a Mayfair men’s club that
is hoodoo, owing to the fact that members who have sat in it have
invariably died soon afterwards. Even on fine, bright, warm summer
days the light in that particular comer is always subdued and
there is a chilly feeling in the air. No satisfactory explanation of
the blight which envelops the corner has ever been found.
Hoodoo is not confined to buildings; there are hoodoo roads,
woods, pools and outdoor places of all kinds.
There is a hoodoo corner of a road not fifty miles from North­
ampton. It inspires an ominous feeling even in pedestrians who
pass it in broad daylight. No tragedy, nothing grim or awful, is
known to have ever occurred at or near the corner to account
for its being hoodoo. Yet it is thought to be very unlucky.
There are hoodoo cars and trains, and in the old days there
were hoodoo hansoms and four-wheelers. I remember hearing
about a London hansom which no man cared to drive on account
of the number of accidents it had experienced; and a four-wheeler
that bore a similar reputation.
The car in which Francis Ferdinand and his wife were assassi­
nated at Sarajevo was regarded by the peasants as bewitched.1
2
During the 1914 War it was kept in a Viennese museum. When
peace was declared it was bought by the Jugoslav Governor of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. He incurred so many accidents when in
it that he sold it.
The man who bought it was found dead in a ditch one day,
with the car, unharmed, close to him. Mr. Tiber Hirschfield was’
the next person to own it. He was taking six friends to a wedding
one day, when it collided with another car, which it was trying to
pass at a great speed. No one was killed but everyone was badly
bruised and shaken. Mr. Hirschfield tried to sell it, but it had
acquired such a hoodoo reputation that no one would buy it, so
he destroyed it.
In 1928 the 1.20 G.W.R. train from Newton Abbot to Padding­
ton was regarded as an unlucky train, on account of the number of
fatalities associated with it.3 Mr. J. Hubber, of Newton Abbot,
who drove it from that place to London, was taken ill when the
1In the twenties of the present century.
2Morning Post, October 27, 1926.
8Morning Post, November 14, 1928.
T H E I N V I S I B L E D A N G E R 29
train was travelling at express speed. He was removed to a waiting-
room at Exeter Station, where he died ten minutes later. A few
months previously Fireman Powlessland died as the train steamed
into Paddington; and in November, 1927, Fireman Walters was
killed while getting the engine of the train ready for starting.
Three fatalities in twelve months! It was little wonder that the
train acquired an ill-omened reputation. It was known as the ghost
train.
Hoodoo ships are far too numerous to include in this chapter.
Places that have been cursed are often hoodoo, but why places
and things that are not associated with any curse or any known
satanical acts, deeds or transactions should be extremely unlucky
is a seemingly insoluble mystery.
T H E CANDLE
I a m indebted to Mrs. Graham, who heard me give a talk o n
Ghostly Phenomena at a club in London, one evening in the
twenties of the present century, for the following story:
“When I was a girl,” she said, “some friends of ours named
Holkett lived in a house in Warwickshire.1 On account of the
rumours that it was haunted, Lady Holkett experienced great
difficulty in obtaining servants. From the appearance of the house
one might have imagined that there was truth in the rumours. It
certainly looked haunted. It was a large, low, rambling, picturesque
old grey stone building, nestling between stately elm trees. A
massive front door opened into a great hall, in the centre of which
was a broad oak staircase, leading to a gallery that connected the
two wings of the building. There were family portraits and ancient
weapons on the walls of the hall, and armour and old china in every
available corner. No matter how fine and sunny the day, the house
was cold and gloomy. I often wondered how Lady Holkett could
live there and always seem to be so bright and happy.”
She told me that nothing would induce her to leave the house
that had harboured so many generations of her family, and in
which she had spent some of the happiest moments of her life. She
loved company and was seldom without visitors.
“I can only remember her as a widow, her husband, an officer
in a Highland regiment, having died in India before I was born.
1By request the names in this story are fictitious.
30 D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
She had two daughters, Alice and Margaret, tall, good-looking
girls, older than I. We were great friends, and they constantly
invited me to their home; in the summer to croquet and lawn
tennis; in the winter to balls and indoor games.
“Lady Holkett was very fond of cards, and she and my mother
used frequendy to play bezique and cribbage, whilst the girls and
I indulged in something rather more frivolous. On these occasions
the carriage always came for us at ten o’clock. When there was
a ball Lady Holkett very kindly put us up for the night.
“I shall never forget the last time I went to a dance at the
house. My mother, who had not been very well for some weeks, was
unable to go to the dance; and my Aunt Norah, who was staying
with us, accompanied me. It was snowing when we set out, and as it
snowed all through the night and most of the next day, the roads
were completely blocked, and we were forced to stay with the
Holketts until the snow was cleared away.
“My aunt and I did not share a room. She slept in the east wing
of the house, where all the other visitors, some ofwhom were belated
like ourselves, slept; and as there was no room for me in that wing,
I was given a room in the west wing. My room was the only occupied
one in the wing.
“Nothing at all disturbing happened until the night before
we returned home. Margaret and I were ascending the hall stair­
case to bed, when Alice met us, looking extremely agitated.
“ ‘Do come to my room,’ she said. ‘Something has happened
to Mary.’ Mary was one of the housemaids.
“Wondering what on earth was the matter, we accompanied
Alice to her room, and on entering it, found Mary seated on a chair,
sobbing hysterically. One had only to glance at the girl to see
that she was suffering from a very severe shock. Though normally
a very rosy, stolid, healthy girl, she was now without a vestige
of colour, the pupils of her eyes were dilated with terror, and her
whole body, from the crown of her head to the soles of her feet,
shook as if with ague.
“ ‘Why, Mary,’ Margaret exclaimed, ‘whatever is the matter?
What has happened?’
“ ‘It’s the candle in Miss Trevor’s room, miss,’ the girl gasped.
‘I can’t put it out.’
“ ‘You can’t put it out? Why, what nonsense!’ Margaret
exclaimed. ‘Are you mad?’
“ ‘It’s as true as I sit here, miss,’ Mary panted. ‘I put the
T H E I N V IS I B L E D A N G E R 31
candle on the mantelpiece, while I set the room to rights, and when
I had finished and tried to blow it out, I wasn’t able to. I blew and
blew and blew, till I was exhausted, and then I became scared,
miss, horribly scared,’ and she buried her face in her hands and
shuddered. ‘I’ve never been frightened like this before, miss, and
I’ve come away and left the candle burning.’
“ ‘How absurd of you!” Margaret scolded. ‘We must go and
put it out at once. I’ve a good mind to make you come with us,
Mary. For goodness’ sake stop crying, or everyone in the house
will hear you.’
“Margaret, Alice and I went to Miss Trevor’s room, and
through the open doorway we saw a lighted candle on the mantel­
shelf, just as Mary had described. Before we had time to cross the
threshold of the room, the door closed with a bang, and there
was no perceptible draught. We all in turn tried to open the door
and failed. We could not move it. We rested for a few moments,
and then tried again. I was pushing with all my might, when the
door flew open, and I fell inside the room. The door closed im­
mediately, and I was alone in the room.
“Alice and Margaret tried in vain to open the door, and kept
banging on it and imploring me to tell them what was happening.
I was too shaken and tongue-tied to reply.
“Though I saw nothing but the candle, the light of which, I
thought, was peculiarly white and vibrating, I felt something
menacing and horrible was in the room. It was in the atmosphere,
the walls and the furniture. It surrounded me on all sides. An
intangible, invisible, evil something that intended to overwhelm
and crush me.
“I thought it emanated from the candle, and I felt that if I
could only succeed in extinguishing the light I should rid the room
of it. I got up from the floor, walked to the candle, and blew.
Again and again I blew. The candle still burned, burned with the
same peculiar white light. I felt that it was mocking me.
“I panicked and ran to a far corner of the room, anywhere to
get away from the candle. I felt it coming stealthily after me,
drawing closer and closer. Then there was a blank.
“I was conscious of nothing until I found myself in Margaret’s
room, with half a dozen people gathered round me. Alice told me
that when she and Margaret succeeded in opening the door of
Miss Trevor’s room they found me, looking very dazed, lying
on the floor. The candle was still alight on the mantelshelf. Lady
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
Holkett experienced no difficulty in blowing it out. She would not
hear of me staying alone any longer in the west wing, and a room
was found for me in the east wing of the house. The following
morning my aunt and I returned home. We found my mother in a
very critical condition. She died that evening.
“There are various superstitions in Scotland regarding candles,
and I have often wondered if my curious experience with the
candle in the Holketts’ house was a portent of my mother’s death;
it occurred just about the time that she was taken so seriously ill.”
This concluded Mrs. Graham’s story. I have compiled it from
the notes which I took at the time that it was told me.
Mrs. Graham’s sister told me that she took a house in Man­
chester which had a very unlucky staircase. People from no apparent
cause were constantly falling down the staircase. The climax came
after the death of an aged lady who had been staying there. The
undertaker’s men, who came for the coffin on the day of the old
lady’s funeral, were warned about the staircase, but in spite of their
caution they stumbled in some mysterious manner and fell when
they were descending the staircase with the coffin. Fortunately they
were not seriously injured, but the accident was of such a distressing
nature that Mrs. Graham’s sister, fearful lest anything more
alarming might happen, vacated the house long before the termina­
tion of the lease. She subsequently learned that no one ever stayed
in the house for very long.
r
HOUSES OF DREAD I N G R E A T B R IT A IN
r
T H E P H A N T O M APE OF HA M PSTEA D
M r s . J a m e s , a reader of my books, told me, when I was living
in London, an extraordinary story of Mr. Ward, one of her girlhood
friends, who was haunted by a phantom ape.
Mr. Ward was on a hunting and exploring expedition in a
jungle in Sumatra. One day he accidentally shot a pig-tailed
macaque. It belonged to a Batak woman who was reputed to be a
sorceress. She cursed him and said that he would always be haunted
by something far more terrifying than anything in this world. He
tried to appease her but without avail.
She spat at him when he offered her money and threatened to
kill him if he did not leave the neighbourhood at once.
Soon after his encounter with her he was mauled by a wounded
tiger. He had hardly recovered from his injuries when he incurred
blood poisoning from the bite or sting of a venomous insect. He
was so ill that he had to leave Sumatra and return to London.
He had not been many days in his flat in Hampstead when
he told one of his friends that he was haunted by a phantom
ape that came to his bedroom every night and made hideous faces
at him.
His friend thought that he must be paranoiac and advised
him to see a doctor. This he would not do. At his earnest request his
friend and a Roman Catholic priest stayed one night in his flat.
They kept watch in the dark outside his room after he had gone to
bed. Between one and two o’clock Ward screamed. They sprang
from their chairs and rushed into his room. The priest crossed
himself and uttered a prayer. Ward was unconscious.
“You believe me now, don’t you?” he said, when he had
recovered sufficiently to speak.
“I do,” his friend replied, “although I saw nothing. Father
David would not have been so startled and have prayed like he
did unless something very terrible was in the room.”
“Something very terrible was in the room,” Father David said.
He was ghastly pale and trembling. “I saw it very distinctly. It
was simian just like you described it, Mr. Ward, and very dia­
bolical. It vanished directly I prayed. It won’t trouble you again.”
He knelt down and prayed and sprinkled the floor with the holy
water which he had brought with him.
35
36 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
He proved to be a true prophet. The Batak woman’s curse
was no longer effective. The phantom ape never again molested
Ward.
A C A R D IFF H A U N T IN G
B e f o r e the First World War Mr. Moor, who was visiting friends
ofmine in Upper Norwood, where I was then living, told me several
strange stories ofghostly happenings in Wales.
One of his stories was about a house in Cardiff. He was invited
to spend Christmas in the house, which was then occupied by
a family named Webb. The house was old and had stood empty for a
considerable time when the Webbs took it.
They had heard rumours that it was haunted but as they did
not believe in the supernatural, they ridiculed the idea.
Nothing occurred to justify the rumours until Mr. Moor visited
them.
They were all sitting in the drawing-room one evening when
there was a rap, as if with knuckles, on the door. Wondering who it
could be, as the cook and the two maids were out, Mona Webb,
the eldest daughter, got out of her chair before the fire and opened
the door. The hall was lighted with gas. As she glanced around
the hall she heard steps ascending the staircase leading from the
first landing to the floor above it. She at once ran upstairs and
searched all the rooms, but found no one.
A few days later Mr. Moor went to his bedroom after luncheon
to enjoy a quiet read and smoke. He lit the gas-fire, placed an arm­
chair in front of it, and sat down. The chair was already occupied.
He sprang up instantly and looked in terror at the chair. No
visible being was in it. Summoning up courage he sat down again,
to experience the same sensation of sitting on someone or something
that was already in the chair. He decided to read and smoke in the
company of beings whom he knew and could see, so he joined Mr.
Webb and Arthur, the youngest son, in the dining-room. Robert,
the eldest boy, was at Sandhurst.
Mrs. Webb was the next member of the household to experience
the haunting. She was alone one afternoon in the house, when she
fancied that she heard someone in the hall. She ran to the door
of the drawing-room, where she had been sitting, and peered out.
She was just in time to see a bony, hairy leg disappear round a
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 37
bend in the staircase. She was so terrified that she quickly drew
back and remained locked in the drawing-room until Mr. Webb and
Arthur came home. They searched the house but could find no one.
Not a word was said to the servants, who came in later, lest they
should be scared and give notice to leave.
On another occasion Mr. Moor and the Webbs were sitting in
the drawing-room after dinner when they heard a succession of
bumps overhead. Lorna, the second eldest daughter, went to the
door and beckoned to the others. They all came to the open door
and listened.
Presently something appeared round the bend of the staircase.
It was too shadowy for them to see it distinctly, but they got the
impression that it was something very extraordinary, not unlike a
nude trussed body that did not seem human nor quite animal, but
an unpleasant mixture of both and something else. It came bumping
down the stairs and rolled right past them to the door at the top of
the basement steps. They heard it bumping down the steps. Then
there was silence.
The Webbs looked at one another aghast. They had all seen
and heard the thing and had been too frightened and horribly
fascinated to move or utter a word.
They returned to the fireside, sat huddled together and glanced
every now and then apprehensively at the door. That same night
Mr. Moor awoke with the feeling he was not alone in the room.
He listened and heard a curious pattering sound. It seemed to
come from a large cupboard inlet in a corner of the room, and to
approach the bed. He opened his eyes, looked and froze. Leaning
over the foot-rail of the bed, grinning at him, was a nude, revoltingly
fat, shapeless figure. Its face was yellow, its eyes pale, slanting and
perfectly mad. It did not appear to have a nose. A gruesome light
surrounded it. Mr. Moor, forcing himself to keep calm, with a
great mental effort bade the thing begone, and in a few moments it
faded away and vanished.
At the suggestion of a friend, who was a spiritualist, the Webbs
had a stance one evening. They sat round a table in the breakfast
room. For some time nothing happened, and then the table rose
and fell and behaved in such a violent manner that Mrs. Webb
was frightened and declared that there was something under the
table moving it. Several of the other sitters experienced the same
feeling, and the stance ended in a panic.
The following night Mona Webb woke feeling very thirsty.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
She stretched out her hand for the box of matches which was on a
chair by the side of the bed, and touched something cold and
clammy. It was a face, not of the living but the dead. In response
to her screams several of the family ran to her room. They only
saw Mona, who had sustained such a severe shock that it was some
time before she could explain what had happened.
Mr. Moor left the house the following morning, and the Webbs
within a fortnight. Strange to say, the servants did not experience
any of the ghostly happenings. They could not understand why the
Webbs decided to vacate the house so suddenly.
A NEW CASTLE H A U N T IN G
A f t e r a lecture that I gave in Manchester before the Second
World War, the following story of a North Country haunting was
told me by Mr. James McKaye:
Mr. McKaye, who was in business in Newcastle, found the
house in which he and his family were living rather too far from
his office. There were no automobiles in those days. So he went
to view a house nearer his office.
As he was going upstairs to the first floor he heard footsteps
following him. He turned sharply round but did not see anyone.
Thinking this was odd but supposing that it might be due to the
acoustic peculiarities of the building, he continued his ascent. He
reached the first floor and went into one of the rooms. The footsteps
followed him. He stamped his foot. There was no echo. He went
into another room. The footsteps still followed him. He became
frightened. It was daylight. The day was fine and warm. The sun’s
rays were streaming in through the blindless windows. He could
hear birds singing merrily.
In broad daylight, with the sounds of street traffic in his ears,
it was absurd to be afraid of ghosts. Ghosts belonged to the night.
Whoever heard of them manifesting or demonstrating in the
daytime when it was light? Ridiculous! Absolutely silly of him to
be scared! And yet he was scared.
Something drew his attention to one of the walls. There was a
shadow on it, and it was not his shadow. It was not the shadow of
anything he had ever seen. He ran down the stairs and out of the
house.
One would have thought that after this Mr. McKaye would
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 39
not have thought of renting the house. But the house had a peculiar
attraction for him. He was fascinated by it. He could not get it
out of his mind. He dreamed about it in connection with a mystery
which he tried to solve, and was always on the verge of solving
when he awoke.
There was not another house in the city which was so con­
veniently situated for him and obtainable at such a low rent.
Consequently he took the house, and within a few days had moved
into it with all his family and household goods.
For the first few weeks nothing at all disturbing occurred,
and Mr. McKaye plumed himself upon having made such an
excellent bargain. He had got the house at an even lower rental
than it was offered at first.
One morning, however, something occurred that made him
feel not quite so thoroughly pleased with himself. He was writing
a letter in his study when the nursemaid came to him in a state of
great agitation.
“Oh, please come at once to the nursery, sir,” she implored,
“the children are playing with something that looks like a dog,
and is not a dog. I don’t know what it is,” and she began to cry.
“You are mad,” Mr. McKaye exclaimed impatiently. He,
nevertheless, sprang up from his chair and ran upstairs.
On reaching the nursery, the blurred outline of something
like a big dog or wolf came out of the half-open door, and tore
past him, so close that he distinctly felt it brush against him.
Where it went he did not know; he was thinking too much of the
children to look. To his surprise and relief the children were not at
all frightened; on the contrary, they were laughing.
“Is the funny dog yours, Daddy?” one of them, a little girl,
asked. “It never wagged its tail like other doggies do, and whenever
we tried to stroke it, it slipped away from us.”
Mr. McKay pretended that it was a dog belonging to a neigh­
bour. He told his wife what had occurred, and she declared that
they must leave the house as soon as possible. He agreed.
That night he sat in his study writing, long after everyone
had gone to bed. It was nearly one o’clock when he rose from his
chair. He was about to turn off the gas when he felt his out­
stretched hand seized by something cold and pulpy, that did not
seem to have any fingers. He was so terrified that he screamed,
whereupon his hand was instantly released, and there was a loud
crash overhead.
40 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
He rushed to his wife’s room and found her sitting up in
bed, talking in her sleep. She appeared to be speaking to a dark,
shadowy figure that was crouching on the floor by the bed. It
resembled the shadow that he had seen on the wall the day on
which he came to view the house. It was not a dog, not a wolf,
not a bear, but a grotesque mixture of all three, combined with
something human and very evil. It vanished almost at once.
Mrs. McKaye woke, and said that she had had a very horrible
dream. She dreamed that she had witnessed a very dreadful murder
committed in the house by a person who did not look human. She
declared that the house was haunted by something extremely evil,
and begged her husband to vacate it that very day. She said that
nothing would persuade her to stay another night in it. Within
twenty-four hours the house was once again vacant.
Mr. McKaye made numerous enquiries about the house but
elicited no information other than that it had long been rumoured
to be haunted, and no tenant ever stayed in it for long.
A strange story of a spirit prognosticating death was told
in the Christmas number of the Weekly Scotsman1
An acquaintance of the writer of the story went on a visit one
Christmas to a house in Perth. He intended to spend a week there.
On the night of his arrival, being very tired, he went to bed early
and was soon sound asleep. He awoke with a violent start, to
find himself lying on his back, staring up at the moonlit ceiling
with wide-open eyes. One of his hands was hanging over the
side of the bed. Suddenly it was gripped by an icy-cold hand,
which lacked a middle finger. The shock was so great that he
nearly fainted, but recovering with an effort he leaned over the
side of the bed, and with his left hand felt the icy hand and arm
that was holding his right hand. The arm terminated at the elbow.
The shock of this discovery proved too great. He really did faint
this time. When he recovered consciousness his right hand was
free, the cold phantom hand had gone.
At breakfast in the morning he related his experience to his
host, who, on hearing the description of the hand, turned deathly
pale, and said: “For goodness’ sake say no more. Years ago an
ancestor of mine, who had lost the middle finger of his right hand
under anything but creditable circumstances, committed suicide
in your room, and ever since then he has periodically haunted the
room. His presence never presages a serious happening unless he
1December, 1925.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 41
catches hold of anyone. Should he do that, some terrible misfortune
is sure to occur.”
He had hardly finished speaking when a maid entered the
room and handed him a telegram. It stated that his youngest son
had died suddenly.
T H E H O U S E OF T H E CRAZY FANCIES
During a period of over forty years I have given talks on ghostly
phenomena to all kinds of audiences and in all kinds of places, and
after my talks people have told me some of their own experiences
with the supernatural. The story of the House of Crazy Fancies
was told me by a lady after a talk by me at a well-known Mayfair
club. She said that she was intimately acquainted with the family
mentioned in the story.1
The story, which is compiled from the notes that I made at the
time that it was related to me, runs thus:
The house was somewhere in Surrey not many miles from
London. It was not very old and there was nothing remarkable in its
appearance, nothing to suggest even to an impressionable, highly
sensitive person that it was haunted.
People passed it without as much as a glance at it. It was just
a very ordinary-looking detached villa in a quiet road in a town
within twenty miles of London. It had stood empty for some time
before Ronald Gregory Walker, pleased with the account Mabel,
his pretty blonde wife, gave of it, after going over it one day with an
estate agent’s clerk, bought it, and had the good luck to move when
the weather was fine. Moving in wet weather does furniture no
good and makes cleaning extra hard.
The Walker family consisted of Ronald, a middle-aged, thor­
oughly practical, hard-headed business man; Mabel, his junior
by ten years; Peter, his eldest son, who was a medical student;
Violet, nineteen years of age, blonde and pretty, like her mother;
Roma, still at school, not as fair as Violet but none the less attrac­
tive; and Jack, aged twelve, and at a local preparatory school.
The house had in the rear of it quite a large garden, which
from long lack of attention was overgrown with weeds. Ronald
promised the boys a good tip apiece if they would help the gardener
1The names in the story are fictitious.
42 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
in getting it in order. He was fond of gardening and he believed in
making his sons useful at home.
It was in this garden—there was a smaller front garden—that the
first of the queer happenings, that were later destined to drive them
out of the house, took place. Peter and Jack had been helping
Smith, the gardener, during the afternoon, with the flower-beds,
and after he had had his tea and gone, they were having a little
game with a tennis ball.
Roma came out of the house to call them in to tea; the bell
had been rung more than once. Picking up the ball, which Jack had
thrown to her, but which she declared she could not catch owing
to the waning daylight, she threw it at a cat that had raised her
ire by killing birds. The ball, going wide of its mark, a common
occurrence with her, entered a nearby bush, and was at once
returned to her with considerable force.
Greatly astonished, she called out: “Who’s that? What are
you doing there?” She ran to the bush and looked behind it. No
one was there.
“What’s up?” Peter asked.
Roma told him, and he and Jack searched around without
finding anyone. The bush was well away from the walls surrounding
the garden. They were high walls, and it would have been practi­
cally impossible for anyone to have scaled one of them without
being seen. There was a door leading into a lane at the end of
the garden but it was locked and bolted. Neither of the boys
could have thrown the ball, because they were not near enough to
the bush at the time.
Trivial as was the incident, it greatly perplexed and mystified
Roma and her brothers. Roma told her parents, who laughed and
said that someone must have been hiding in the garden and thrown
the ball for fun.
Roma and the boys declared that this was impossible since
they had searched the garden so thoroughly, and there was really
nowhere for anyone to have hidden.
Ronald and Mabel shrugged. “Someone was there,” they
persisted. “It was dusk and you didn’t see them.”
The trio let it go at that but they weren’t satisfied.
Some nights after the incident of the ball, Ronald Walker
was sitting in the little room which he called his study. By him
on the table were several sealed and addressed envelopes. He
had been striving to work off much overdue arrears in corres-
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 4 3
pondence, and becoming weary had lain down his pen to rest
awhile.
It was close on midnight; the rest of the household had long gone
to bed. The house and everywhere was very still. Not a sound,
except the pattering of raindrops on the window-panes. The
weather being cold and wet he had drawn the heavy green curtains
across the window recess. Now something made him look at them.
They were violently shaking. Thinking this odd, he rose from his
seat and going to the window made sure that it was shut and
latched. He felt with his hand to see if there was much draught.
There was a little but assuredly not enough to produce such shaking
in the curtains. A little puzzled, he returned to his seat and drew
it nearer to the gas-fire. He felt suddenly chilly. Perhaps it was
the behaviour of the curtains, and his mind reverted to Roma’s
story of the tennis ball. Of course someone had been hiding in the
bush and had thrown it at her. Probably a boy from one of the
neighbouring houses; he had seen boys going in and out of several
of the houses in the road. The young devil had no doubt enjoyed
their inability to find him, and had made off as soon as the coast
was clear. What more likely?
The silence was very profound. It rather got on his nerves.
He wanted to go to bed, but the warmth of the fire was so enjoyable
that he did not like leaving it. A sudden consciousness of some
presence behind him made him glance apprehensively round. There
was no one. He frowned at the wall-paper, a vile mixture of bilious
yellow and dyspeptic green, with a jumble of flowers of an un­
known species. It was soiled and had probably been on the walls
for many years.
The longer he stared at it, the more it jarred his nerves. He
determined to get rid of it as soon as possible. There seemed to be
something unusual about it tonight; something that made him
keep on gazing at it, at one spot in particular. Of course, it was
just his silly imagination, but in the flowers and leaves he could
see a grotesque resemblance to a face, such as one sometimes
sees in a fire or in the pattern of a carpet. It became more and
more pronounced. A queer, distorted face with prick ears, a grin­
ning mouth and ogrish, leering eyes.
With an effort he tore his gaze from it; but wherever he looked
it was the same. Grotesque faces grinned and leered mockingly
at him. He rubbed his eyes, but still he saw them.
“I’ve been using my brain too much,” he said to himself.
44 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
“I’m suffering from hallucinations. Perhaps I ate more than was
good for me, or it may be eye-strain.”
Whatever the faces were, figments of his distorted imagination,
or actually in the design on the walls, they were harassing, and he
did not like them. At last, unable to bear the sight of them any
longer, he got up, left the room and went to bed.
As soon as he came down in the morning he went to the study
and looked at the wall-paper. There were the flowers and inter­
twining nondescript leaves, but no suggestion of the queer faces.
Consequently, he tried to persuade himself that they were entirely
imaginary. He did not say a word about them to the family.
It was Mabel Walker’s turn next.
One evening, about a week after Ronald’s experience in the
study, she was sitting in the drawing-room, mending socks and
stockings. Ronald was at a club dinner. Peter and Jack were
spending the week-end with friends in the country, and the two
girls were at a party.
Mabel was alone in the house, and felt like it. Everywhere
was so very quiet, and there was such a sense of no one but herself
in the building. Suddenly she had the feeling of being watched. It
was distinctly disquieting. She did not like it. She got up and made
sure the curtains were drawn, and that no one could see in through
the window. She went into the hall, and into the rooms and kitchen,
and tried the front and back doors, to see if they were fastened. In
fact, so strong had been the impression of eyes covertly spying on
her, that she searched everywhere.
Convinced at last that no one but herself was in the house,
she returned to her comfortable seat by the fire. As soon as she
had finished mending one pair of socks or stockings she put them
on the chesterfield, which was close at hand. She was in the act
of putting a pair there when she stopped short.
There were four cushions on the chesterfield, two at each
end, and the one on which her eyes were riveted bore a not at all
nice resemblance to a face. There was a protuberance for the nose,
another protuberance for a sharply defined chin, a long dent for
a mouth, and two small dents for the eyes, which were unpleasantly
life-like and seemed to be regarding her with an expression of
malicious amusement. She looked at the other cushions, and in
each one of them she saw a different face, equally, if not more,
sinister and mocking.
Fearing there was either something wrong with her brain or
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 45
stomach, she got up, and, having rearranged the cushions, went on
with her mending, swearing at the manufacturers for making such
very poor material, at the shops where they came from for charging
such exorbitant prices, and at the Government for allowing such
gross profiteering.
Presently she was again conscious of being watched, and on
looking round she saw, with a start, that the cushions were not
as she had left them. There were again faces, queer animal faces
with the same expression of malicious amusement in their eyes.
She became scared and wondered if she was in a nightmare. To
make sure that she was awake, she rose and looked at herself in the
mirror over the mantelshelf. When she got back to her chair the
faces were no longer to be seen.
The front door-bell rang. She went to the door and asked who
was there. There was no reply. She opened the door; no one
was there. She was about to return to the drawing-room when
something caused her to look at the coats hanging in the hall.
It was then that she got her second start. This time it was a very
big one, for one of the coats, a long white mackintosh, was not
hanging loosely down like the other coats but was bulging in a
very peculiar manner. It seemed very much as if some strange
thing of an alarming shape and of considerable size was inside it.
It gave her a distinctly uncanny sensation.
Endeavouring to be calm, she was about to cross to the mackin­
tosh to find out what was causing the bulge when there were three
sharp knocks on the front door. It was Ronald.
After listening to his account of the dinner, she told him that
she believed she must be going mad, or else there was something
very much the matter with her eyes. When he asked what made her
think such a thing, she told him about the mackintosh and cushions.
He listened with interest to all she had to say, and then said,
“Well, if you are mad, I must be mad too,” and he proceeded to
tell her about the faces in the wall-paper. They agreed not to
say anything about their experiences at present to the children.
When they had done talking, Mabel suddenly remembered the
mackintosh. They went together to the recess. The mackintosh no
longer bulged: it was hanging quite normally.
That there was something very queer about the house they
were now constrained to admit. Before coming there they had
rather scoffed at the idea of a supernatural, but after what they
had experienced they did not feel like scoffing any more.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 4 7
the whole body, in fact—gave Violet the impression of a much too
realistic and wholly evil corpse.
Telling herself that it was very silly to be frightened by a
pillow and bedclothes, but nevertheless continuing to be frightened—
she could not forget seeing the bed rise—she got into bed, with the
candle still burning, and after a while fell asleep and did not wake
until the morning.
Contrary to her expectation, no one laughed when she narrated
her experience at the breakfast table. They all listened gravely.
“I had much the same experience two nights ago,” Peter said.
“I wasn’t going to say anything about it, but after what you have
told us, I won’t keep it to myself any longer.” His story was as
follows:
Not feeling well, he got up in the night, and, having lighted the
gas-fire, as he felt chilly, he went to the lavatory, where he was
sick. On coming back to his room, he was startled to see a figure
seated in the armchair near the window.
“Who the devil are you?” he exclaimed.
There was no reply. The figure remained perfectly still. He
spoke again and more peremptorily; still no answer. Wondering
who the person could be, he advanced a few paces nearer to the
chair.
The window was slightly open, and the night wind blew into
the room with a gust, stirring the curtains and causing them to
rustle with a ghostly sound.
The figure in the chair was alarmingly queer. Its head went up
into a grotesque peak. It had pointed ears and no apparent neck.
In the glow from the fire the face of the figure in the chair shone an
unearthly white. There was something so bizarre about it that he
was scared, although he tried to assure himself that it could only be
an illusion. He lit the candle, and when he looked at the chair the
strange figure had vanished. Only his coat and trousers were on
the chair. He had put them there before getting into bed. He spent
quite a long time endeavouring to arrange them to resemble the
figure that he had seen, but, try how he would, he could not succeed.
They kept on being just his clothes, bearing no likeness whatsoever
to the frightening figure.
Other queer things happened. The Walkers continually lost
things, to find them afterwards either in a place which they had
thoroughly searched or in a spot where it did not seem possible
that they could have put them. The house finally got on all their
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
48
nerves to such an extent that they were obliged to leave it long
before the expiration of the lease.
Neither their servants nor their visitors ever complained of
any queer happenings in the house, and the people who occupied
the house after the Walkers had left it lived there seemingly per­
fectly peacefully, and were never known to complain of being
harassed in any way.
The Walkers wondered if they had been affected by the linger­
ing thoughts of some former occupant of the house, who had been
at all deranged; or whether there was something really super­
natural in the house that, for a very peculiar reason, was inimical
only to them. The ball incident in the garden seemed to give
considerable colour to this supposition.
T H E PH A N TO M B U T L E R
O n e bright summer morning Miss Wakefield and her friend,
Miss Smith, were walking along a road in the old residential
suburb of a Warwickshire town. While passing an empty, desolate-
looking house Miss Smith remarked that it looked as if it was
haunted.
“You are quite right,” Miss Wakefield said. “It is haunted.
That is why it is unoccupied. I can’t tell you now what I know
about the haunting but I will this evening.”
When the evening came, and they were seated in Miss Wake­
field’s prettily furnished little drawing-room, Miss Wakefield began
her tale.1
“One evening nine years ago my cousin, Jane Goodman, was
sitting with her friend, Lucy Barnes, in the drawing-room of
Number 17 Longcroft Road, the house that you thought looked
haunted.
“ ‘You won’t mind my leaving you for a few minutes,’ Jane
said. ‘There are one or two things I must tell my daily woman
before she leaves. She is staying rather later than usual this evening
to oblige.’
“When Jane returned to the drawing-room, after being absent
for a little longer than she had anticipated, she found Lucy looking
very white and agitated.
1A reference to this haunting is in Spectre Stricken. Anonymous.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 49
“ ‘Is anything the matter?’ she asked. ‘Aren’t you feeling well?’
“ ‘I’m quite all right,’ Lucy replied. ‘
Just a little tired. I must
be going home.’
“Jane looked distressed. ‘What, so soon!’
“ ‘Yes,’ Lucy said. ‘I promised Mother that I would not be late.’
“She went. Jane did not see her again for some days.
“One evening Jane was sitting alone in the dining-room,
when she heard a curious sound. She looked around the room and
saw the bright handle of the door turn rapidly round and round.
She at once rose and opened the door. No one was there. That
same night she woke to hear a sound like rushing water in the
room. She lit the gas but could not find anything to account for
the noise.
“A few days later she heard screams from the kitchen, and
found Emma, the cook, lying on the kitchen floor. She thought
at first that Emma was dead, but to her great relief Emma had
only fainted. When Emma had sufficiently recovered she told
Jane what had happened.
“She said that she was in the larder when she heard a tre­
mendous noise, as if a number of trays had been thrown about.
She ran into the kitchen, and saw a man lying on the floor, with
his arms folded across his breast. He was dressed in white. His
face and eyes were those of a dead man, and he had a long beard.
The sight of him gave her such a dreadful shock that she fainted.
She would not remain any longer in the house, but left that very
day. She was very ill afterwards, and it was many weeks before
she was able to resume work.
“The woman whom Jane engaged in her place had not been
in the house long before she declared that it was haunted. She
said that things were thrown about in the kitchen by invisible
hands, and that she was awakened in the night by footsteps pacing
up and down the floor of her room, the door handle of which kept
turning round and round. She gave notice to leave before she
had been in the house a week.
“The day on which the new cook came Jane met Lucy Barnes
in the town, and Lucy told her what had happened the evening
when she had appeared so pale and agitated.
“She was sitting by the window reading when she heard a
cough. It sounded at her elbow. Thinking that it was Jane, she
turned to speak to her. To her surprise, however, it was not Jane
but a tall figure in white, with a death-like face and a long beard.
D
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
The apparition glided round the room three or four times and
disappeared through the wall near the fireplace, from which there
issued waves of gruesome, luminous blue vapour. She was so
appalled that she felt on the verge of fainting.
“After hearing Lucy’s account of what had happened on that
particular occasion, Jane told her about the phantom that the
cook had seen lying on the kitchen floor, and about the mysterious
turning of the door handles and the disturbing noises. Jane decided
then and there to resign her tenancy of the house, and in less than
a week she left. No tenants ever remained in the house for the full
duration of their lease.
“A butler is rumoured to have committed suicide in the house,”
Miss Wakefield said, “and it may have been his ghost that Lucy
Barnes and the cook saw. I have seen the room in which he killed
himself. It is in the basement. The sun’s rays never penetrate into
it, and the atmosphere even in warm weather is always chilly.
“On the worn stone-flagged floor there is a broad, red stain,
which no amount of scrubbing can ever efface. It is believed to be
human blood. The butler cut his throat.”
T H E OLD H O U S E OF U R R A R D
M r s . D. O g i l v y , in her book of Highland Minstrelsy, which
was published in the forties of the last century, devoted a poem
to a description of the Old House of Urrard, which, from a high
wooded bank, overlooked the northern outlet of the Pass of Killie-
crankie, the scene in 1689 of the fierce conflict between the Anglo-
Hanoverian Army, under General Mackay, and the gallant
Highlanders under Viscount Dundee.
Mrs. Ogilvy’s poem was based on childhood memories of the
Old House and its famous surroundings.
“Enough remains of the Old House of Urrard to keep alive
the memory of its traditions; whilst its tales of spiritual in­
trusion have been nourished by the finding of skeletons, rusted
swords, and mouldered garments; and gossip of ghostly com­
pany arraying themselves in brocaded robes and sweeping
trains; and of the grotesque horror of silken dresses trailing
along the floor.”1
1Illustrated London News, May 23, 1846.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R IT A I N 51
T H E O L D H O U S E OF U R R A R D
Dost fear the grim brown twilight?
Dost care to walk alone,
When the firs upon the hill-top
With human voices moan?
When the river twineth restless
Through deep and jagged linn,
Like one who cannot sleep o’ nights
For evil thoughts within?
When the hooting owls grow silent
The ghostly sounds to hark,
In the ancient house of Urrard,
When the night is still and dark?
There are graves about old Urrard,
Huge mounds by rock and tree.
And they who lie beneath them
Died fighting by Dundee.
Far down along the valley.
And up along the hill,
The fight of Killiecrankie
Has left a story still.
But thickest show the traces,
And thickest throng the sprites,
In the woods about old Urrard,
On the gloomy winter nights.
In the garden of old Urrard,
Among the bushy yews,
A turfen hillock rises,
Refreshed by faithful dews;
Here sank the warrior stricken
By charmful silver ball,
And all the might of victory
Dropped nerveless in his fall.
Last hope of exiled Stuart,
Last heir of Chivalrie,
In the garden of old Urrard
He fell, the brave Dundee.
In the ancient house of Urrard
There’s many a hiding den.
The very walls are hollow
To cover dying m en;
For not e’en a lady’s chamber
Barred out the fierce affray,
52 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
And couch and damask curtain
Were stained with blood that day.
And there’s a secret passage,
Whence sword and skull and bone
Were brought to light in Urrard,
When years had passed and gone.
If thou sleep alone in Urrard,
Perchance in midnight gloom
Thou’lt hear behind the wainscot
O f that old haunted room
A fleshless hand that knocketh,
A wail that cries on thee,
And rattling limbs that struggle
To break out and be free.
It is a thought of horror;
I would not sleep alone
In the haunted rooms of Urrard,
Where evil deeds were done.
Amid the dust of garrets
That stretch along the roof.
Stand chests of ancient garments
Of gold and silken woof.
Where men are locked in slumber
The rustling sounds are heard
Of dainty ladies’ dresses,
Of laugh and whispered word,
O f waving wind of feathers,
And steps of dancing feet.
In the garrets of old Urrard,
Where the winds of winter beat.
By the ancient house of Urrard
Its guardian mountain sits,
Whene’er those sounds arouse him
His cloudy brow he knits;
For he the feast remembers,
Remembers he the fray,
And to him flit the spectres
At breaking of the day.
There under mossy lichen
They couch with hare and fox,
Near the ancient house of Urrard,
’Mong Ben-y-Vrachy’s rocks.
Mrs. Ogilvy’s book of Highland Minstrelsy contains poems
of two classes, embodying historical legend or dealing with the
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 53
superstitions of a romantic people. They are remarkable for their
veracity, pathos and beauty. ‘The Old House of Urrard* and
‘The Spinning of the Shroud’ are generally considered among the
finest.
Few writers can equal her in her graphic narration of ghostly
happenings, whether in an old house or elsewhere. There is always
a touching truth about them, which makes them all the more
appealing to people genuinely interested in ghost-lore.
I have spent many nights alone and with other people in
reputed haunted houses, where sounds of rustling silken garments,
wailing cries and footsteps were heard at times, generally when
least expected, and the reading of Mrs. Ogilvy’s poems brings back
my experiences in those houses most vividly to mind. She had the
faculty of creating a ghostly atmospheric effect, which only believers
in the supernatural can understand.
Not a few of old Scottish houses reek with the ghostly atmosphere
of the ancient House of Urrard.
The battlefields of Killiecrankie and Culloden, like so many
battlefields in other parts of the world, are said to be haunted.
A lesser-known old haunted battlefield is near Kilry in Strathmore.
A man who spent a night there never got over the shock of what he
saw and heard.1
I have heard similar stories about Glencoe, where it is said that
sometimes on the anniversary of the massacre ghostly phenomena
of the most appalling kind occur.
E D IN B U R G H G H OSTS
L a w - s u i t s c o n c e r n i n g g h o s t l y h a p p e n i n g s a r e b y n o m e a n s
u n c o m m o n .
Many people interested in hauntings will doubtless recollect a
case that occurred in Dublin in 1885, and another in Drogheda in
1890. In both these cases the landlords concerned strongly objected
to their houses being alleged to be haunted.
In 1835 Captain Molesworth rented a house at Trinity, near
Edinburgh, which belonged to a Mr. Webster. After he had been
in the house for about two months he began to complain of extra­
ordinary noises, and accused Mr. Webster, who lived next door, of
making them. Mr. Webster indignantly repudiated the charge.
1Legends o f Strathmore, by William Gow.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
The noises continued, and Captain Molesworth not only took
up the boards in the room in which the noises were worst, but
bored holes in one of the walls which divided his residence from
that of Mr. Webster, in order to detect the culprit.
His efforts were fruitless; the disturbances became worse;
there were footsteps made by invisible feet, knockings, scratchings
and the rustling of dresses. Sometimes the knocker seemed to be
trying to play a tune, and if asked a question would respond by so
many knocks.
Alarming things happened. Beds were raised during the night
as if someone was underneath them, and the knockings were so
violent at times that the walls shook.
Captain Molesworth had had two daughters, one of whom was
named Matilda, the other one Jane. Matilda had died recently.
Jane, who was between twelve and thirteen years of age, was
frequently ill in bed. The fact that the noises were generally most
frequent and loudest in her room made some people think that
she made them. Other people thought that it was the ghost of
Matilda, warning Jane that she was doomed to die very shortly.
Sheriff’s officers, masons, magistrates, army officers and friends
and relatives of Captain Molesworth spent nights in the house, in
the hope of solving the mystery. Jane was bound, in order to prevent
her playing any tricks. All to no purpose. The disturbances con­
tinued and grew worse and worse.
At length, unable to stand the haunting any longer, Captain
Molesworth left the house. Mr. Webster brought an action against
him for the damages committed by taking up the boards, breaking
the walls and firing bullets at the wainscoting, as well as for slander
of title, declaring that the house was defamed through spreading
the report that it was haunted. The law-suit lasted for two years,
and numerous witnesses were examined. I have been unable to find
out how it ended.
Jane Molesworth died soon after she left the house, and the
people who subsequently took it never complained of any mysterious
disturbances.1
Mr. Robert Chambers, in his Traditions of Edinburgh, mentions
several cases of haunting in the Scottish capital.
The house in which Major Weir and his sister lived was for
many years haunted. People dreaded to walk past it after nightfall.
William Patullo, an Edinburgh man of a roving disposition,
1Satan's Invisible World, by Prof. G. Sinclair.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 55
who had been a soldier and a traveller, had the reputation of
being afraid of no one and nothing. Upon hearing that Weir’s
house was to be let at a very low rental, he took it on a rather
long lease. The night after he and his wife moved into the house
they were lying awake when they saw a figure, like a calf, come
to the bed. It rested its forefeet on the foot-rail and stared at them.
When it had contemplated them thus for a few moments, it slowly
backed away from the bed and gradually vanished.
They left the house the next day, and for fifty years it remained
unoccupied by any living human being. Sometimes the house was
seen during the night to be illuminated with a gruesome light, and
sounds of dancing, howling and spinning were heard proceeding
from it. On several occasions people saw the ghost of Weir emerge
from the house, mount on a phantom black, headless horse, and
gallop away in a cloud of dust. Sometimes the whole of the in­
habitants of the Bow would be roused from sleep by the sound
of a phantom coach-and-six dashing up the Lawn-market and
down the Bow. Inside the coach, their white, evil faces looking out
of the windows, were the ghosts of the sorcerer Weir and his satanic
sister.
There was a house in Edinburgh Lawn-market which for some
extraordinary reason was shut up for many years. A grand banquet
was about to take place in the house one night, the host and guests
were seated at the table, when something so dreadful occurred
that they all rose from their chairs and rushed out of the house.
None of them ever returned to it.
The house was shut up and everything, even the food on the
table, was left just as it was when they fled. No one knew to whom
the house belonged; no one ever enquired after it; no one living
after that night ever saw the inside of it. What occurred to cause
such a panic was never known. Possibly the house still remains
closed, a house of fearful, unsolved mystery.
Drumlanrig Castle in Dumfries, which was built by the first
Duke of Queensberry, is said to have been haunted by the ghost
of Lady Anne Douglas, who used to walk about the building with
her head in one hand and her fan in the other. Every now and
then she fanned her head vigorously.
After the death of the first Duke of Queensberry a phantom
coach-and-six, with a headless coachman, used to be seen on the
anniversary of his death, driving up to the castle. The ghost of
the Duke, accompanied by a tall, hooded figure in black, emerged
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
56
from the castle and got into the coach, which drove away at a
furious rate, passing through the closed gate of the main lodge.
The town mansion of the Duke in Canongate, a large, gloomy
mansion, was likewise rumoured to be haunted. After standing
empty for many years it was converted into a home for destitute
people. No one seems to have enquired or cared whether the ghost
frightened them.
T H E STRANGE E X P E R IE N C E OF A M IN IS T E R
F e w cities have contained more reputed badly haunted houses
than Edinburgh, and most of them would seem to have been in the
vicinity of the Canongate. The following account of a haunting
in that part of Edinburgh is based on a traditional story told to
Sir Walter Scott by one of his friends.
Late one night, about the beginning of the eighteenth century,
a clergyman in Edinburgh was aroused from his sleep by loud
knocking on the front door of his house. On rising and opening the
door he was confronted by a heavily cloaked, masked man, who
ordered him to get into a sedan-chair. Not daring to disobey, as the
man was armed, he did as he was bidden and was taken to a remote
part of the town. On the way he overheard a conversation between
the men who were bearing him, which led him to believe that they
were not ordinary sedan-men but belonged to a very superior class.
When at last they set him down, they blindfolded him, threaten­
ing to kill him if he resisted or uttered a sound. They then led him
into a building, across what appeared to be a very spacious hall,
up a flight of stairs, along a corridor to a large, well-furnished
room. There they removed the bandage from his eyes.
They then conducted him into an inner chamber, in which a
lady, who had recently been delivered of a child, was lying in bed.
He was ordered by one of the men who had brought him to the
house to say such prayers by the bedside as were appropriate for
a person not expected to survive for many hours. He remonstrated,
expressing his opinion that the lady did not appear to be in such
a critical condition. He was sternly commanded to obey his in­
structions and threatened with severe punishment if he hesitated
and dallied.
In fear and trembling he knelt by the bedside, and as soon
as he had finished praying he was again blindfolded. As he was
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 57
being hurriedly led downstairs he heard the significant report of
a firearm. He was taken safely home and given a large sum of
money; but at the same time warned that the least allusion to what
had transpired that night would cost him his life.
Early in the morning his servant came to his room in a great
state of excitement, and informed him that a house, in close proxim­
ity to the Canongate, had been destroyed by fire during the night,
and that the owner’s daughter, a lady eminent for her beauty
and accomplishments, had perished in the flames. The clergyman
had his suspicions.
The family, whom he suspected of being responsible for the
tragedy, was wealthy and influential. He was poor, without in­
fluence, and naturally timid. To have made public his suspicions
would have availed nothing. It would only have antagonized the
family and jeopardized his safety, so he held his tongue. The deed
was done, he reflected, and could not be undone.
As the years went by he grew less apprehensive and cautious,
and finally related his experience on the night of the fire to some
of his fellow clergy. He died shortly afterwards.
His tale, which had been widely circulated, was after a time
nearly forgotten, when something happened which recalled it
vividly to mind. A fire broke out on the very same site on which
the house that figured so tragically in the clergyman’s story had
once stood. When the fire was at its height, the phantom of a
lovely woman in a costly but very antique style of nightdress
appeared in the midst of the raging flames, and in an awful voice
cried out: “Once burned! Twice burned! The third time I will
scare you all.” She then vanished. The people who had assembled
to view the conflagration saw and heard the apparition, and were
so terrified that they lost no time in quitting the scene.
The belief in this traditional story was formerly so strong in
Edinburgh that on a fire occurring for the third time on the same
site, there was considerable apprehension lest the phantom should
fulfil her threat. Apparently she relented, for nothing very dreadful
happened. For several years after the third fire a red stain was to be
seen on the wall of the house which had suffered in the conflagration.
It was probably paint, but superstitious people, remembering the
clergyman’s story, believed it to have been put there by the phantom
of the beautiful lady as a reminder of the awful manner of her
death.
At Holyrood the stains of Rizzio’s blood are still shown on the
D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
58
floor of the passage near the back stairs, leading from Queen Mary’s
room. According to tradition, they are indelible and no amount
of scrubbing can efface them. One wonders if a serious attempt has
ever been made! In the Second Series of the Chronicles of the Canongate
reference is made to them in the introduction, where the Cockney
attempted to remove them by scouring-drops, much to the horror
of the housekeeper, and could only be induced to desist by the
entreaties of Mr. Chrystal Croftangry, who explained that they
ought to remain indelible, on account of the associations with
which they were connected.
Robert Chambers regards them in the light of a traditionary
absurdity, since the boards are comparatively modern and must
have been laid down long after the murder of Rizzio, the old floor of
his day being no doubt worn out.
A H A U N T E D INN
T r a d i t i o n a l stories of hauntings in connection with the days
of wreckers and smugglers do not appear to be so numerous in
Scotland as they are in England. Hugh Miller in his Scenes and
Legends of the North of Scotland relates a case of haunting arising
out of the accidental killing of a notorious Scottish smuggler.
In the reign of Queen Anne, John MacLeod, a merchant of
Cromarty, owned the principal inn in that town. He had an only
son, Walter, who for several years had been very actively engaged
in smuggling in brazen defiance of the officers of the revenue.
He was in the habit of transferring the goods which he had
smuggled from a cavern on the sea-shore to a vault in his father’s
inn.
One evening, soon after he had brought home a fresh supply
of smuggled goods, mostly spirits, he was sitting by the kitchen
fire talking to his father, when two revenue officers entered the
inn and asked for liquor. Walter, as soon as he saw them, edged
away from under the lamp which lighted the kitchen, and muffled
himself up in the folds of his dreadnought greatcoat.
His father attended to the officers. One of the officers enquired
for Walter, and expressed a hope that he was not on board a
smuggler’s vessel that had been captured in Scottish waters that
morning, as it would go hard with the prisoners, since they had
fired on a revenue ship.
6o D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
was a ghost, the little boy ran downstairs and told his sister that
there was “a muckle big man i5 the top of the house”. His sister
at once summoned some of the neighbours, who searched the house
from the garrets to the cellars, without discovering a trace of
the mysterious stranger. These were only a few of the ghostly
occurrences that acquired for the inn the unpleasant reputation of
being very badly haunted.
TW O H A U N T E D H O USES
I n t h e early years of the 19th century there was living in
one wing of an old mansion house of Garleton, in the Scottish
Highlands, Miss Janet Hepburn, sister of Colonel Hepburn of
Luffness and Congalton. She was elderly, tall and thin, and when
walking in the grounds of the house always wore a black silk
cloak and bonnet, and carried a large cane ornamented with a gold
chain and tassel.
She often rambled out of doors in the dead of night and early
morning, until her clothes were saturated with rain or dew, when
she hurried back to the house, tore them off and scrambled into
bed, to stay there till noon or even later. Mainly on account of her
extreme eccentricity she was regarded with terror and aversion
by the neighbouring superstitious villagers.
Having sauntered out one morning before sunrise she sat down
to rest awhile on a craggy hill. She had not been there long when
a very odd-looking man, in sombre black clothes, who seemed to
rise from the ground, slowly approached her. He was very pale,
unkempt and emaciated, and his eyes had such a strange expression
in them that she was scared, and shook her cane at him to keep him
off. He went away muttering, and disappeared in the same sudden
and mysterious manner as he had appeared.
Try how she would she could not banish him from her mind.
The thought of him frightened her so much that she exercised more
than usual care that night before going to bed. She made sure
all the windows and doors were shut and securely fastened, and
after locking the outer door she put the key of it under her pillow.
She did not venture out of doors but sat up till a late hour reading.
When she was in bed she could not sleep; she could not expel
the peculiar man she had seen in the grounds that morning from
her thoughts. She was lying awake, trying all kinds of devices
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 6l
to send her to sleep, when she heard the front door, which she
had so carefully locked and bolted, open. A few moments later she
heard heavy steps cross the hall and ascend the stairs leading to
her room. Presently the door slowly opened. Sick with terror she
forced herself to sit up and ask in a trembling voice who was
there, although she knew instinctively that it must be the man
who had terrified her. She was not mistaken. It was the man.
“This is my native place,” he said. “I have a long history
which I must tell you.”
He moved slowly towards the bed. Thinking he had come to
rob and perhaps kill her, she pointed to a box containing her money
and jewellery, and bade him take what he wanted and begone. He
tried to speak, to tell her the reason of his visit, but she would
not listen. She crossed herself—she was a Roman Catholic—put
her fingers in her ears and once again told him to go.
For a second or two he stood irresolute and then, eyeing her
angrily, he turned and left the room. She heard him tramping
down the creaking stairs and across the hall. The front door opened
and closed with a bang, and then there was a deep, unbroken
silence. Only two other people, an aged spinster and her servant,
besides herself and her maid were in the building, and they were
in the other wing of it.
In the morning when her maid brought her tea, she told her
what happened and asked her to search to see if anything had been
disturbed. The maid, who said she had heard a strange voice in
the night, looked everywhere. The chest where the family plate
was kept had not been opened, the doors and windows were all
fastened, just as they had been when Miss Hepburn went to bed,
nothing was disturbed, and there was no sign of anyone having
entered the house. Miss Hepburn was thoroughly convinced now
that her visitor in the night came from another world.
Exactly twelve months later Miss Hepburn died suddenly,
about the hour when she had seen for the second time the phantom
man in black with the terrifying eyes. Mr. Horace Welby, author
ofSigns Before Death, was told this story by an intimate acquaintance
of Miss Hepburn, who vouched for the truth of it.
When I was staying in Forfarshire I used to go frequently to
Montrose. A lady who lived in John Street told me that her aunt
lived in a haunted house not far from Montrose. She said there
was a room in the house the door of which would never keep shut
during the night unless something very heavy was placed against it.
62 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
The lock had frequently been examined and found to be in perfectly
good order, yet if the door was locked it invariably flew open,
and always between two and three o’clock.
Bells sometimes rang without any apparent cause. My in­
formant and her aunt were sitting in the parlour one afternoon
when they heard footsteps cross the floor. They looked to see who
it was, but no one was in the room except themselves. Their attention
was drawn to the wall by the fireplace, and they both saw the handle
of the old-fashioned wire bell pulled violently out. On several
occasions all the bells in the house suddenly rang, and heavy
footsteps were heard running up the stairs. Nothing ghostly was
ever seen but often felt, especially on the staircase and in the parlour.
My informant was frightened only once in the house, and that
was when she was going upstairs one morning, and there was a
loud crash on the stairs just behind her. She was considerably
startled and was unable to discover anything to account for the
sound.
No tragedy was known to have ever occurred in the house,
but it was believed to have been built on the site of an old cemetery,
which might possibly afford an explanation for the hauntings.
T H E H A U N T E D C O R R ID O R
C o n s i d e r a b l e i n t e r e s t w a s e x h i b i t e d t o w a r d s t h e e n d o f t h e
last century in widespread rumours of the haunting of B------
House, near F------, in the south-west of England.1
The hearing of these rumours led Mr. W. and his friend
Mr. K. to ask permission of the D. family who owned the
house to spend a night in it, in order to find out if there was any
truth in the alleged haunting. Permission having been obtained
Mr. W. and his friend went to the house during the absence of the
owners.
They dined early and soon after the meal took up their positions
in the corridor where they understood that most of the ghostly
happenings occurred. The corridor was very long with a door at
each end of it. They set a table across the corridor, so as to bar the
progress of any earthly intruder, and on it laid the revolvers which
they had brought with them in case of hoaxers. They placed two
tall lighted candles on the floor near the wall and about three feet
1Strange Things Among Us, by H. Spicer.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 63
from the table. They sat at the table and played picquet and
ecarte until the big clock in the hall sounded midnight. They then
ceased playing and listened very intently.
They heard nothing. Mr. K. yawned.
“I say, it’s nonsense staying here any longer,” he exclaimed.
“No ghost ever comes after twelve o’clock. Supposing we have just
one more game and then go to bed.”
Mr. W. looked at his watch, which he had taken the precaution
to set by the church clock, and found that the house clock was
fast. By the right time it was not twelve. He proposed that they
should remain in the corridor for at least a quarter of an hour
longer. The words were hardly out of his mouth when they were
acutely aware that something had entered the corridor. The silence
was soon broken by the clicking of high-heeled shoes on the polished
boards of the corridor. As the footsteps drew nearer they could
hear rustling and what sounded like the brushing of a stiff silk
dress against the walls, but they could see nothing. They were
petrified with amazement and not a little scared. The footsteps
passed the candles, the table and the two men, and continued to
the end of the corridor. There was the sound of a door shutting
very violently, and after that there was silence. Mr. W. and his
friend retired very hurriedly to bed, convinced that B------House
was really very nastily haunted.
On one occasion a nurse had to pass through the corridor,
leading a little girl who was deaf and dumb. As the ghostly sounds
approached and passed them the child exhibited the utmost fright,
clinging to the nurse and burying her face in the nurse’s dress, as
if to exclude the vision of something very awful. She could never
be induced to enter the corridor again.
T H E L E E R IN G D E A T H ’S-HEAD
D u r i n g the eighties and early nineties of the last century a large
building near Aldershot which was closely associated with the
Episcopacy was haunted by a ghost in armour, a phantom lady in
white and an invisible terrifying ghost. The White Lady always
predicted the death of someone closely connected with the building.
She was seen on three occasions by three different people immedi­
ately prior to the death of a well-known bishop.
A lady who visited the building in 1893 was sitting by her
D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
64
bedroom fire one night, when there was a loud knock on the
door. She called out “Come in.” The knock was repeated.
Again she bade the person to enter. There was another knock.
The handle ofthe door turned noisily. The door flew open, admitting
a current of icy air. The floor shook violently, as if some very heavy
weight had been dropped or hurled on to it. The lady sensed the
presence in the room of something very horrible and intensely
malevolent. She was so frightened that shejumped into bed and hid
under the clothes. She lay there quaking, too scared to move or
utter a sound until the morning. She left the building soon after
she had her breakfast, declaring that nothing would induce her to
stay another night there.
The ghost in armour used to steal quietly into rooms, pinch the
toes of sleepers to rouse them, raise its visor and disclose to their
horrified gaze the ghastly leering face of a skeleton.
Fortunately for the occupants of the building the haunting by
this phantom was very infrequent.
The cause and origin of the hauntings, if known, was never
divulged to the public.
T H E EV IL CO U N TESS
I n t h e early sixties of the last century Mr. Robinson,1 a man
who had acquired considerable wealth in trade, bought an old
house near Walton-on-Thames that had for many years belonged
to a well-known aristocratic family. As the house lacked modern
conveniences and was not large enough for his family, Mr. Robinson
had most of it pulled down, and erected a fine, imposing mansion
in its place.
It was not until the Robinsons had been in the house for some
weeks, and a visitor came to stay with them, that the disturbances
began. The visitor was awakened one night by the sound of foot­
steps in the corridor outside her room. They sounded as if someone
wearing high-heeled shoes was tapping their way very cautiously
along the corridor. They stopped outside the visitor’s room. The
visitor heard the door handle turn and called out: “Who is there?
What do you want?” There was no reply, and the door slowly
opened. The visitor became alarmed. She sat up in bed, and saw an
old woman, clad in costly garments belonging to a bygone period.
1Not his real name—All the Year Round, 1870.
H O U S E S OF D R E A D IN G R E A T B R I T A I N 65
Jewels sparkled on her waist and arms. She had white hair and
black eyes, which gleamed evilly as they encountered the gaze of
the terrified visitor. A gruesome light seemed to surround her. She
crossed the floor to the fireplace, raised a skinny hand and shook it
menacingly at the visitor, and vanished. The visitor left the house
the following day.
After she had gone strange and startling sounds were heard
in the house during the night. There were crashes, as if all the
crockery in the kitchen had been thrown on to the tiled floor,
trampings up and down the staircases, and mocking laughter.
People who slept in the room that had been occupied by the
visitor were visited in the night by the phantom of the old woman
with the evil eyes. She pulled the clothes off the bed, and if there
was a candle or nightlight, blew it out. The room had finally to be
used for lumber only and kept locked. The noises continued and
became so violent that the Robinsons were compelled to sell the
house. The haunting then ceased.
The ghost was believed to be that of a certain wicked Countess,
an ancestress of the family who had sold the property to the Robin­
sons. She had been greatly attached to the house and always declared
that she would haunt anyone who destroyed or altered any part ofit.
Another haunting of an equally alarming description also
occurred in the sixties of the last century.1
The Rev. Ernest Edwards accepted a curacy in a town in
Rutlandshire. He took a small house on a four-years’ lease, and
moved into it with his wife and family.
Nothing unusual happened until one Sunday evening when
Mrs. Edwards and the cook were alone in the house. About seven
o’clock Mrs. Edwards heard a great noise in the room directly
under the one in which she was sitting. A door slammed, a window
was thrown up, curtains were pulled noisily and furniture was
banged about and dragged across the floor. Mrs. Edwards rang
for the cook, and enquired angrily what was going on in the room
beneath her. The cook said that no one was in the house but
herself, and that she had not heard any noise.
Not satisfied, Mrs. Edwards, accompanied by the cook, went
down to the room. Nothing had been disturbed. She wondered
if she had imagined the sounds. A few nights later she again heard
them, and the same thing happened. When she went to the room,
the sounds ceased and nothing had been moved. After that
1A ll the Tear Round, 1870.
E
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
night strange unaccountable noises were heard in all parts of the
house.
Two of the maids were sitting in a room on the ground floor
one fine, perfectly still evening, when they heard the curtain in
front of the window rustle, and saw it swell out, as if someone was
concealed behind it. There was a distinct impress of a tall body.
Directly they screamed the swelling went down, and the curtain
hung quite naturally. The cook, who heard the screams, ran to the
room, and the three woman looked apprehensively behind the
curtain. The window was shut and fastened. There was nothing to
explain the rustling and swelling of the curtain. The next day the
maids gave notice to leave. The new maids did not stay long, and
the Edwardses, worried by the ghostly happenings, left the house
long before the termination of their lease.
Their enquiries as to the cause of the haunting proved fruitless.
Ghosts apparently take a peculiar pleasure in harassing and
tormenting clergymen and their families.
MOIST AMD VIOLEMT GHOSTS
N O ISY AND V I O L E N T G H OSTS
I n c l u d e d in this category are ghostly phenomena of a poltergeist
character. One such case occurred in 1879 in north Lincolnshire.
Mr. Edward Soulby, a man of independent means, occupied
a cottage in the village of Buttesford, which is a few miles from
Scunthorpe. Mr. Soulby informed his nearest neighbours one day
that he believed he was bewitched. He told them that one Sunday,
when it was fine and there was very little wind, he had seen the
branches of a tree, which grew very near the cottage, suddenly
sway violently to and fro and deliberately crash against a window.
It broke the glass to pieces. He said that soon after this had hap­
pened he saw the tea kettle bounce from the fire on to the kitchen
floor and trot across the road. When it reached the far side of the
road it trotted back into the cottage, resumed its position on the
fire, and recommenced singing.
On another occasion he encountered a can of water on the
staircase. It disputed the right of way with him, step by step,
until he reached the landing, when it let him proceed without
further interference.
More alarming things occurred. A heavy case, containing
lard, came rattling down the stairs one day, and broke one of the
steps. Some of the flagstones that paved the floor of the cottage
at once rose, seemingly of their own accord, and hurled themselves
through a window into the road.
The only other occupant of the cottage when these uncanny
things occurred was Mr. Soulby’s grand-daughter, Betsy Soulby, a
girl well advanced in her teens, who lived with him. Soulby declared
that an evil spirit was responsible for all the strange and destructive
happenings. He made Betsy and the domestic animals, including
the pigs, wear garlands of wicker branches round their backs,
hoping that this would be a means of getting rid of the spirit.
Mr. Peacock, a magistrate, who resided in a neighbouring
village, advised Mr. Soulby to send Betsy away. Mr. Soulby did
as he suggested, and after Betsy had left the cottage there were
no more disturbances.
This leads one to suppose that Betsy was in some way responsible
for the disturbances. Possibly she had a peculiar attraction for a
certain species of spirits; or there was in her a force or element
69
70 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
which at times she was unable to control, and which had to find a
field for its pent-up activity.
The following rather more unusual case of noisy and violent
ghostly happenings is taken from an old manuscript of the 17th
century r1
In 1679 the house of Mr. William Morse, of Newbury, Berkshire,
was infested with demons. A long staff danced up and down in a
chimney, and was afterwards hung upon a line and swung to and
fro; an iron crook was hurled about by an invisible hand, a chair
flew about a room and alighted on a table. A chest was carried
from one place to another; a door was barricaded; and the keys of
the house were taken off the bunch and flung about, making a
loud noise.
A little boy was the chief sufferer. He was flung about with
such violence that his friends feared his brains would be dashed out.
His bedclothes were pulled off his bed, and his bed was shaken.
A man tried to hold him down in a chair; his efforts, however,
were in vain, for the boy was raised constantly up and then thrust
forcibly down, while the chair kept moving about the room appar­
ently of its own accord. When the chair finally became stationary,
the boy was taken out of it by an invisible agency and thrown across
the floor to within a few feet of the fire. He was pricked on the back,
and knives were stuck into him. The spectators pulled the knives
out of his body, which was unharmed. Sometimes he barked like a
dog, and sometimes clucked like a hen.
It was after this extraordinary behaviour on his part that the
apparition of a black boy was seen, not only individually but
collectively. The advent of the spectre was accompanied by violent
drumming and thumping on a table. After these demonstrations
a ghostly voice exclaimed, “Revenge, sweet revenge.” The listeners
besought God to protect them against the evil spirits present,
whereupon the same ghostly voice cried: “Alas! alas! We are cast
out. We knock and demonstrate no more.” After that the pheno­
menal disturbances in the house ceased.
Provided the case is in the main true it is of peculiar interest,
inasmuch as it proves that spirits are sometimes, at any rate,
definitely present during disturbances of a poltergeist character,
and very probably are the sole cause of them.
It certainly seemed so in a case of noisy and dangerous happen­
ings in 1852 in Blackley. In the autumn of that year the landlord of
1Vide More Glimpses o f the World Unseen, by the Rev. F. G. Lee.
N O IS Y A N D V I O L E N T G H O S T S 71
the popular village inn was a dogger named William Whitehead.
He had been living quite peacefully in the house for fully ten months
before anything disturbing occurred. According to his statements, he
was on the ground floor of the house one day, probably in the tap-
room, when he heard a sound like the whistling of a railway engine.
He went into a back room, from which the sound seemed to
come, and heard a loud cackling. He searched the room without
discovering any hen in it. He trod on a certain flagstone, and
immediately there were terrific screams, which ceased directly he
stepped off the stone. Other members of the family, who came
running to the room on hearing the screaming, trod on the stone,
and the same thing happened.
He removed the flagstone and after digging for some time
found a large jar filled with lime and bones. A village conference
was held, and several people who examined the bones believed that
they were the bones of a human being who had been murdered in
the house many years ago.
The disturbances continued and became more and more
incessant. The most harrowing screaming and hoarse cackling was
heard every night in the week and sometimes during the day. Some
of the oldest inhabitants of Blackley declared that the ghost of
Mrs. Shaw, who had formerly lived in the Old Hall, which stood
near the inn, was the cause of the disturbances; other people
said that the haunting was due to the depravity of certain persons
in the village, who spent too much of their time in the inn. An
old man named George Horroc, who once lived in the inn, said that
on two occasions he saw the ghost, which was in the form of a
young woman and made noises like the “rumbling of stones”.
Many people visited the house, and efforts to lay the ghost
proved of no avail. It sometimes did dangerous things. On one
occasion it lifted a kettle full of boiling water from the kitchen
fire and set it on the floor, in a place where people were most
likely to fall over it. The inn was known to have been haunted
for at least eighty-five years.
Whether the Whiteheads remained in it or were forced to
leave owing to the disturbances, I have not been able to ascertain.
There was no further reference to it in the local Press.
Another haunting which was of a violent description, but
hardly comes within the category of poltergeist phenomena, is
mentioned in All the Year Round.1
1 1871.
72 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
In the year 1868 Mr. Ronaldson read in a newspaper that
there was a furnished house to let about ten miles from London.
He applied at once for permission to view it. It was a picturesque
old building, with extensive wooded grounds occupying an isolated
and lonely position. He was charmed with its appearance, situation
and interior, especially with one large bedroom. He decided to
rent the house, and having signed an agreement and made all the
necessary arrangements, he took up his abode there.
He engaged the woman who had been acting as caretaker as
his housekeeper. She begged him not to sleep in the room that he
had liked so much. She told him that it was damp and that the
bed-linen had not been sufficiently aired. She suggested that he
should sleep at an inn in the nearest village, until she had got
another bedroom ready for him.
The objections she raised to his sleeping in the large room
roused his suspicions, and made him all the more determined
to occupy it. Eventually she gave way. After he had the supper
which she prepared for him, he strolled about the grounds for a
short time.
When he returned to the house he found the housekeeper
lighting a number of candles in his bedroom. He told her that he
did not want so many candles, that it was quite an unnecessary
expenditure.
She appeared to be greatly concerned, and implored him to
keep them burning all night. He promised that he would do so, in
order to appease her, but directly she had left the room he ex­
tinguished all the candles except one, and he blew that one out
as soon as he was in bed.
Try how he would he could not go to sleep. In spite of the
woman’s warning, the bed felt warm and comfortable. He was
tired after his journey, and yet something kept him awake. He
resorted to various devices to make him drowsy, but it was all to
no purpose; he just could not sleep. Suddenly, much to his surprise,
he heard murmuring. He strained his ears and listened. It was no
fancy. There were voices. They ceased to murmur, and developed
into the gruff voices of men engaged in a violent quarrel. There
were many oaths and much foul language. Ronaldson got up and
lit a candle. The voices at once ceased, and there was absolute
silence.
Considerably shocked and mystified, and not a little frightened,
Ronaldson got back into bed and blew out the candle.
NO I S Y A ND V I O L E N T GH OS T S 73
The voices began again at once, and were accompanied by
tramping and scurrying of feet, heavy breathing and gasping and
sounds of savage blows. A desperate fight was seemingly in progress
in Ronaldson’s room. The imprecations used suggested that it was
the re-enaction of a fight to the death, which had taken place very
many years ago. The cries and groans that succeeded the sounds
of struggling were of the most appalling description.
Ronaldson was shocked into a state of unconsciousness. When
he recovered everywhere was still, and the dawn was breaking. As
a result of his harrowing experience during the night, he had
brain fever and lay between life and death for many weeks. He
recovered eventually and made exhaustive enquiries regarding the
haunting. He was unsuccessful. The housekeeper and the agent for
the property either could not or would not tell him anything,
and he fared the same with everyone whom he questioned.
C H R IS T M A S AND N O ISY G H OSTS
S o m e years ago Badenoch, near Blair Athole, harboured more
than one ghost. A Badenoch woman married a Bonskeid man and
went to that place to live with him. She brought with her servants,
who were also natives of Badenoch, and either she or they brought
with them one or more of the Badenoch ghosts, for soon after they
came to the house at Bonskeid supernatural disturbances com­
menced.
Turnips were thrown about the kitchen by invisible hands,
candles were mysteriously blown out. A spinning-wheel was seen to
come downstairs and fall to pieces in a room on the ground floor
No sooner was it put together than it walked upstairs impelled by
no visible hands, and then came down again and fell to pieces as
before. The owner of the house was standing in a room with a
lighted candle in his hand when a potato was thrown at him. It
hit him and extinguished the candle. He heard one of the servants
laughing at him, and sent her and the other servants who had
accompanied his wife back to Badenoch, and there were no more
disturbances.1
The road from the wood of Nant to Kilchrenan on Lochaweside
was haunted not very long ago by a black shadow. People who
1 Witchcraft and Second Sight in the Highlands and Islands o f Scotland, by J. G.
Campbell.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
walked along the road on a fine moonlit night saw two shadows
moving alongside them; one of the shadows resembled one of them,
the other shadow was that of a queer little man with a very big head
and a hump on his back. He was called Bodach Beag Chill-a-
Chrevnain.
Phantom cats would seem to be more plentiful in Scotland
than in other countries. A loch in the north of Tiree was haunted
by a swarm of howling cats, and some years ago several houses in
Dundee and Aberdeen were rumoured to be troubled at times by
ghost cats that had the unpleasant habit of jumping on beds at
night.
I have heard of more than one alleged haunting in Inverary.
The fishermen there were troubled at one time by a ghost that
interfered with their nets, and a place near Appin was haunted by
a ghost with arms like bags of wool that on one occasion was seen
to attack a man.
One of the worst reputed haunted out-door places in Scotland
is in Skye. Horrible forms are seen and sounds of gurgling and
throttling are heard on a lonely road in the vicinity of Portree. It
takes a very brave man to go along that road alone at night. Most
people avoid it even in the twilight.
There is a superstition still extant in the West of Scotland
that if you wish to see the person who is destined to figure promi­
nently in your life within the next twelve months, you have only to
peer through the window of the dining-room of your house at
midnight on Christmas Eve and you will see, standing behind
the chair on which you are accustomed to sit, the shadowy figure
of such an individual.
Relative to this superstition there is the following story.1 Two
people from Glasgow were spending Christmas week in a quaint
old hotel near Loch Fyne. Desirous of putting this superstition
to the test, they stole quietly out of the hotel at midnight and
peered through the window of the dining-room, which was dark and
deserted. Nothing happening, they were about to come away dis­
appointed when the door of the dining-room suddenly opened and a
tall man, dressed according to the mode prevalent about the middle
of the 18th century, entered, carrying a lighted candle in one hand
and in the other hand a pistol. Placing the pistol on the long table
in the centre of the room, he examined it closely, and then, raising
it to his head, he pulled the trigger. There was a loud report, a
1The Weekly Scotsman, Christmas Number, 1925.
NO I S Y AN D V I O L E N T G H O S T S 75
blinding flash, and the room was plunged into darkness. The man
and candle vanished.
Badly scared, the two visitors ran into the hotel expecting
to find its inmates alarmed and probably panic-stricken; to their
great surprise, however, no one was astir, and the house was
wrapped in silence.
They saw the night porter and told him what had happened.
He said that he had not heard any sound and persisted that they
must have imagined that they had seen a man shoot himself, that
there was no such man in the hotel. In the morning they sought the
landlord and told him what they had witnessed.
He was rude at first, but when they threatened to leave the
hotel at once he became apologetic, and informed them that the
hotel had been haunted for a long time by the ghost of a gentleman
who was believed to have committed suicide in the dining-room one
Christmas Eve about the middle of the 18th century. He said
that the ghost only appeared on the anniversary of the suicide, and
that only the people who actually saw it heard the report of the
shot. He begged the two visitors not to tell the other guests as,
should they tell them, it might injure his business. The two visitors
promised not to say a word, but their nerves were so badly shaken
that they left the hotel the following day.
The Ford of Ath-Fleodair, near Loch Maddy in North Uist,
has long been reputed to be haunted, chiefly on Hallowe’en and
Christmas. Gruesome lights and terrifying forms, bearing no
resemblance to anything of this world, are seen there.
Another Christmas haunting is at a crossroad north of Argyll.
A party of revellers were driving by the crossroad on Christmas
Eve when their horses shied, and they saw lying on the ground a
very tall woman with a white shawl wrapped round her head.
Greatly alarmed, they got out of the carriage, only to discover
to their astonishment that the woman had vanished and was not to
be seen anywhere.
When they told the people with whom they were spending
Christmas about their strange experience they were informed that
the crossroad was well known to be haunted by the ghost of Brown
Maggie, a woman who had murdered an old man in a particularly
cruel manner, and had been gibbeted at the crossroad in the
18th or early 19th century.1
The Weekly Scotsman, Christmas Number, 1925.
THE VENGEANCE OF GHOSTS
8o D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
He became pale and said: “You have seen the evil genius of
our house. Her history is this: one of my ancestors fell in love
with a beautiful girl of humble birth. They became engaged and
were about to be married, when the girl suddenly disappeared and
was never seen or heard of again. It was supposed that she had
been murdered by a relative of my ancestor, who strongly dis­
approved of the marriage.
“From time immemorial there had been preserved in our
family two silver bracelets, such as you describe, with which our
chiefs betrothed their brides. It was believed that my ancestor
had given one of the bracelets to the girl he intended to marry.
Ever since she vanished her ghost has always appeared, wearing the
silver bracelet, prior to the death of a member of my family.”
Her advent on this occasion prognosticated his own death,
which occurred within a short time of her appearance at the hall
window.
T H E VENGEAN CE OF G H O STS ( C o n t i n u e d )
J a m e s G r a n t in his book The Mysteries of All Nations relates the
traditional Italian ghost story of the haunting of a murderer by
his victim.
Carlo Stella, a handsome, unscrupulous, predatory young
Italian of low extraction, chanced one day to render service to
the gay and fashionable Baron Cattaneo. Learning that the Baron
was reputed to be very wealthy, Stella lost no time in ingratiating
himself with Cattaneo and cultivating his friendship. Night after
night he induced the Baron to drink heavily and play cards with
him for ever-increasing stakes, and finally got him to stake every­
thing he possessed. Stella won; he always won. He took care to
get the Baron’s signature to a documentary conveyance while
Cattaneo was still under the influence of drink.
The following day the Baron was found dead, shot through
the head. Stella, by virtue of the deed of conveyance, acquired
all the Baron’s land and money. He was suspected of murdering the
Baron, but as nothing definite was proved against him, he escaped
arrest. He soon afterwards became engaged to the beautiful widow
of an Italian nobleman.
At the hour appointed for their marriage, when the bridal
party were all seated in the church, a tall, heavily cloaked man,
T H E V E N G E A N C E OF G H O S T S 8jJ
with a ghastly wound in his face, strode noiselessly up the central
aisle, stood for a few moments gazing sternly at Stella, who fainted,
and then as silently left the building. Whither he went no one knew.
The marriage was postponed until the following evening. Once
again the bridal party assembled in the church, and the service
was about to commence when the same tall, blood-stained man
entered the building. This time he strode right up to Stella, who
regarded him with horror, and whispered in his ear. He then
turned down one of the side aisles and mysteriously disappeared.
Stella again fainted. The bride and everyone who had come to
witness the ceremony were terrified, and hurriedly left the church.
The next day the widow broke off her engagement to Stella.
He was awakened every night by unearthly ghastly sounds in
his room, and was horribly conscious of something very dreadful
bending menacingly over him. He dared not open his eyes or stir
until it was daylight. He was tormented to such a degree that
he besought a woman who lived in a cottage near his estate, and
was reputed to be a seer and to be able to conjure up spirits at
will, to do her utmost to rid him of the evil spirit that was haunting
him. She promised to do her best, took the money he gave her,
spat on it, put it in a weasel-skin purse and then into her pocket.
Muttering what Stella supposed was an incantation appro­
priate for the occasion, she threw some powder out of a black oak
box into the fire. Presently a tall, cylindrical blue light rose from
the floor in front of Stella, and a voice, apparently proceeding from
it, exclaimed: “Murderer, you will be freed from me for two days.
On the third day from now we shall meet again.” Directly these
ominous words had been pronounced the light vanished.
The extreme eeriness of the visual and auditory phenomena
appalled Stella. He fully believed that they were supernatural
and due to the presence in the room of the murdered Baron.
Greatly perturbed he left the cottage and returned home. He
kept a fight burning in his room all night, and had two armed
servants stationed on the landing outside his room, with strict
injunctions to come to him at once should he summon them.
About noon on the third day after his visit to the reputed seer
two of his acquaintances, who were on the bank of the river adjoin­
ing his estate, $aw him careering wildly towards them on his
favourite black horse. As he drew nearer they perceived that
his face was convulsed with terror. They moved quickly to one side
as he dashed by them and plunged over the steep bank into the river.
F
82 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
They saw nothing to account for his extreme terror but they
distinctly felt something, accompanied by a cold current of air,
which passed them as if in hot pursuit of him. For some moments
they were too frightened to do anything, and when they had
recovered sufficiently to scramble down the steep bank and peer
into the deep, swift-flowing river, they saw no sign of Stella or
his horse. His body was not recovered for some days.
Many people who believed that he had murdered Baron
Cattaneo, and that he was guilty of other crimes too, attributed his
strange tragic end to supernatural agency.
H A U N T E D GRAVES AND C O FFIN S
T h e f o l l o w i n g c i r c u m s t a n c e s o f i n t e n s e h a t r e d o f a p e r s o n b e i n g a
p r o b a b l e c a u s e o f a v i o l e n t h a u n t i n g d e r i v e s its a u t h e n t i c i t y f r o m
a n 1 8 t h - c e n t u r y m a n u s c r i p t i1
About the middle of the 18th century there was living alone
at an old country hall in Lincolnshire an elderly squire. The house,
which had once been full of life and gaiety, had become the abode
of gloom and sadness, owing to the death of the squire’s wife and
daughter, who was sole heiress of all his possessions.
The bodies of the lady and her daughter were deposited in
the family vault amid the lamentations of the squire, who was
heartbroken, and of the villagers, by whom the deceased ladies
were highly esteemed.
For some years the squire’s only brother had lived at the
hall. He had left it on account of the animosity that he had mani­
fested towards the squire’s wife, who reciprocated his sentiment
but in a less blatantly aggressive manner.
Because of the feud that existed between the two persons
the squire had had no intercourse whatsoever with his brother,
after the latter had left the hall.
Some months after the deaths of the squire’s wife and daughter
the rector of the village, who had been a great friend of the family
for many years, contrived to bring about a reconciliation between
the squire and his brother, with the result that the latter returned
to the hall. One condition was made, namely that there should
never be any allusion to the deceased sister-in-law.
1Glimpses in the Twilight, by the Rev. F. G. Lee, D.D. Published 1885. Black­
wood & Sons.
T H E V E N G E A N C E OF G H O S T S «3
A year after the reconciliation had taken place between the
two men a malignant fever broke out in the village. Among its
victims was the squire’s brother. Shortly before he died the rector
begged him to forgive his sister-in-law for anything that she may
have done to offend or harm him. His efforts were fruitless. His
prayers only incensed the dying man, who sat up in bed and
exclaimed, “I know that I am dying; if, when I am dead, you dare
to bury me in the family vault with that accursed woman, the
living as well as the dead shall hear of me.” He fell back with a
frightful imprecation on his lips, and expired.
The rector was immeasurably shocked. He did not suppose
for one moment that the dying man could carry out his threat,
and he deemed it wise to make no allusion to it either to the squire
or to anyone else. The body of the dead man, after lying in state
for several days, was consigned to the family vault in the church­
yard, and placed next to the coffins ofthe squire’s wife and daughter.
That night the villagers living near the church were alarmed
by fearful shrieks and cries coming from the churchyard. It seemed
as though a desperate struggle was taking place between two or
more people.
The rector, to whom the extraordinary occurrence in the night
was reported, told the squire about his brother’s dying threat, and
suggested the immediate opening of the vault. When this was done
an astounding spectacle was disclosed. The coffins of the squire’s
wife and daughter were lying in a far corner of the vault, the girl’s
coffin across the coffin of her mother, as if to protect it. “Close to
them, standing not as deposited but erect and menacing, was the
coffin of the squire’s brother, which had so recently and decorously
been placed upon black trestles.” The coffins were restored to their
original places, and the vault was again closed.
That night the noises in the vault were even louder than pre­
viously. The sounds of blows and shrieks of pain and terror appalled
the villagers, who were keeping watch on the churchyard to
prevent the possibility of tricksters. The nocturnal disturbances
continued with unabated frightfulness until the squire, at the advice
of one of his friends, had a strong brick wall made in the vault to
separate the coffins of his wife and daughter from the coffin of his
brother. This had the desired effect. The noises ceased, and the
coffins remained undisturbed.
Another case of ghostly disturbances in a churchyard is related
in the same book. A youth named Robert Baty expressed a wish
D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
more than once that he should be buried within the Church of
Arthuret, in the North of England, in which for several generations
members of his mother’s family, the Grahams of Grahamshill,
had been interred. He was accidentally drowned on August 12,
1680, when little more than twenty-three years of’ age. Un­
expected circumstances prevented his nearest kinsfolk obeying
his injunctions relative to the burial place of his body. It was
interred without and not within Arthuret Church.
On the night after his funeral his ghost appeared to his youngest
sister, Mary, and upbraided her for not having regarded his wishes.
She was not at all frightened, and calmly told the apparition that
the place of burial had not been chosen by her but by other people.
The ghost threatened to molest the people who had disregarded
his wishes until they had his body removed and put in the church.
Mary assured him that she would do all she could in the matter.
The following morning some agricultural labourers, who
were passing through the churchyard on their way to work, found
Baty’s grave disturbed; all the earth which covered the coffin
had been thrown out, and the coffin was exposed to their view.
They informed the rector. He had the grave filled in and employed
people to keep watch in the churchyard. The watching, however,
was of no avail. On two succeeding nights the earth was thrown
out of the grave, and the coffin again exposed to view.
Mary, who was much alarmed at these occurrences, implored
her kinsfolk to do everything in their power with regard to the
fulfilment of her brother’s wishes. “A faculty was obtained from
York, where the Archbishop’s Court was held, authorizing the
removal of Baty’s body to the family vault within the church.”
Soon after this was done the ghost of Robert Baty appeared again
to Mary, and informed her that it was now at rest, and that there
would be no more alarming occurrences.
ISLAND,SEA AND CAVE HAUNTINGS
ISLE OF MAN H O R R O R S
I n n o part of the British Isles are legends and traditional stories
of hauntings more numerous than in the Isle of Man. Many of
them are associated with Peele Castle; one of the ghosts which is
said to haunt it is the notorious Manthe Doog or phantom in the
form of a shaggy dog with evil glaring eyes.
Waldron, the famous Manxland historian, says that an appari­
tion called the Manthe Doog haunted all parts of Peele Castle,
but particularly the guardroom, to which it would constantly
come and lie down by the fire. The soldiers on duty there were so
accustomed to seeing it that they ceased to be greatly alarmed by
it, but as they believed it to be an evil spirit, waiting for an oppor­
tunity to injure them, they refrained from swearing and using foul
language in its presence. None of them liked to be left alone with it,
or to go alone during the night along the passage through the
church to deliver the keys of the Castle to the Governor or his
substitute.
One night a soldier, who had been drinking somewhat heavily,
declared that he was not in the least degree afraid of any ghost
and would go alone with the keys. Soon after he had started, his
comrades in the guardroom heard the most unearthly sounds, and
presently he returned, ghastly white and too overcome with terror
to say what had happened. He died in violent agony. After this
no one would venture in the passage at night, and consequently
it was sealed.
Waldron asserts that he heard the truth of the story vouched
for by several people. One of them was an old soldier, who said
that he had seen the phantom dog many times. Although the
passage was sealed, rumour asserts that the Manthe Doog still
haunts the ancient ruin.
Many stories and legends of ghostly and mysterious happenings
are also associated with Rushen Castle, formerly the palace of the
kings of Manxland, and for many years the prison of the island.1
According to Waldron there were said to be magnificent houses
under Rushen Castle. Several men, he states, ventured to explore
the subterranean region in ages past but none of them ever returned
to give an account of what they saw. In more recent times a man
1Until 1890.
87
88 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
possessed of more than ordinary courage and resolution begged
permission to explore under the castle. He obtained leave of the
Governor, went down and returned by the aid of the pack-thread
which he had providentially taken with him.
He told an astounding story. He said that after he had passed
through the vaults directly underneath the castle he found himself
in a long, dank and dark passage. When he had gone along it for
about a mile he came to a magnificent house which was illuminated
with many candles. Having fortified himself with the brandy
which he had brought with him, he summoned up the courage to
knock at the front door of the building.
The door was immediately opened by a servant in gorgeous
livery, who asked him what he wanted. He explained that he was
anxious to reach the extremity of the subterranean domain but
there were so many passages ahead of him that he did not know
which was the right one to take. The servant very obligingly
showed him the way.
When he had gone a considerable distance he came to a house
even more magnificent than the first one. All the windows were
wide open, and there were lamps burning in every room. He
peered into one of the rooms and saw a hideous monster of at
least fourteen feet in height and twelve feet round the body lying
on a table in the middle of the floor. Its head was on a cushion, and
it was holding a sword in one of its huge, hairy, clenched hands.
The sight so appalled the explorer that he turned tail and
made no attempt to proceed any further. On his way back he
stopped at the first house he had seen, and the polite servant
told him that if he had entered the second house he would have
been killed. He asked the servant the name of the monster and
who owned the house. The servant would not tell him, and advised
him to return to the castle as quickly as possible and never to
attempt to explore the subterranean regions again. He took the
servant’s advice and hastened home.
The monster which he had seen was believed to be one of
the semi-human giants expelled from Wales by the great prophet
and enchanter Merlin. Incredible as Waldron’s story may seem it
was credited in Manxland for many years.
I S L A N D , S EA A N D C A V E H A U N T I N G S 89
NASTY SEA PH A N T O M S
S o m e of the most dangerous ghosts haunt ships and the seashore.
In Sandy’s Ovid, 1632,1 there is a tale of an old Bristol seaman,
who saw the ghosts of four dreadful-looking Bristol witches playing
at dice in the cockpit of his ship, while it was at Gibraltar. When
the ship weighed anchor, they sprinkled magic powder to prevent
it sailing, and made hideous grimaces and flew at the seaman
and scratched his face with their long nails when he entered the
cockpit. It was not until a priest was summoned that they ceased
to haunt the ship.
One of the worst haunted places in the world would seem
to be in the vicinity of Marblehead. The shore of Oakum Bay,
near Marblehead, is haunted by the ghost of a lovely Spanish
woman, who was barbarously murdered by pirates in the 17th
century. She is not dangerous but the ghosts of her murderers that
hover near the scene of her death are dangerous, inasmuch as they
are evil and contaminate the atmosphere. Whittier in one of his
poems alludes to them thus:
’Tis said that often when the moon
Is struggling with the gloomy even,
And over moon and star is drawn
The autumn of a clouded heaven,
Strange sounds swell up the narrow glen,
As if that robber crew were there,
The hellish laughter, the shouts of men,
And woman’s dying prayer.
Drake in his Legends of New England says the ghost of the Spanish
lady still haunts Oakum Bay, and was seen in the last century by a
well-known legal gentleman.
Another badly haunted place in the New World is Sable
Island. Gruesome lights and the hideous ghosts of the murderers
of a lady passenger on the transport ship Amelie are seen there.
Like the ghosts of Oakum Bay they terrify all who have the mis­
fortune to contact them.
In an article entitled “Fish and Men in the Maine Islands”
in Harper's Magazine, May, 1880, Mr. W. H. Bishop tells the story
1See also “Strange Sea Phantoms”, anonymous, in Translatedfrom the German.
D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
of the haunting of the ship Hascall, which broke its moorings on
St. George’s Bank and collided with and sank the Andrew Johnson.
All the men in the Andrew Johnson were drowned. For years after­
wards the ghosts of the drowned men used to rise from the water,
come on board the Hascall and fish over the side of the ship. So
terrified were sailors at the appearance of these gruesome spectres
that no crew could be found to sail on the Hascall, and the vessel
was finally abandoned and broken up.
In 1893 there was lying in a dock at Bathurst, Newfoundland,
a trading vessel named the Squando. No crew would man her.
Owing to certain terrible happenings that had occurred on board
her she had acquired an evil reputation. How it all began no one
knew. Her history appears to have been tolerably uneventful up
to the year 1889, when she was lying at anchorage in San Francisco
Bay.
The captain’s wife fell violently in love with the first mate, who
was a handsome fellow, and because he did not respond to her
advances, and exhibited rather too openly a distaste for them, she
told her husband that he had been trying to seduce her. The
captain believed her, and they both went into the mate’s cabin
one night and murdered him. The woman held the mate’s arms
while the captain cut his throat and severed his head from his
body. They threw the body overboard.
That was the first known tragedy on board the Squando. The
next captain of the ship was killed in a mutiny, and the two suc­
ceeding captains died mysteriously in it. After the death of the last
captain no one would sail in the Squando.
The Norwegian consul at Bathurst employed two watchmen to
stay on board the vessel during the night. They stayed one night
but refused to stay another. They said that during the night
cold hands touched them and caught hold of their clothes; that
things had been flung at them and about the deck by invisible
beings; that voices had repeatedly ordered them to leave the ship,
and that they had seen the ghost of a man covered with blood and
without a head.
Other watchmen, who were bribed to spend a night on the
Squando, told a similar tale, and likewise refused to stay another
night on the ship. She ultimately experienced the same fate as the
Hascall, and was abandoned and broken up.
In the autumn of 1894 I sailed from New York to Southampton
in the German liner Elbe. A steward on board her told me that none
IS L A N D , SEA A N D C A V E H A U N T IN G S g i
of the crew liked to go into one of the cabins, because on several
occasions a dreadful face had been seen pressed against the port­
hole. Soon after I had sailed in her the Elbe collided with a ship
in the North Sea, and sank with nearly all on board it.
On the morning of March 21, i860, a boat containing three
men came to a standstill in the bay off Staten Island, New York.1
The men rested on their oars and stared at an oyster sloop that
was a little distance from them, and commented on her odd appear­
ance and behaviour. Her sails were torn and hanging over her
side, and she was drifting aimlessly along, as if the man at her
helm was either absent or asleep.
“Better get a little nearer, I reckon,” one of the men in the boat
said. “Something’s wrong.”
His companions agreed, and plying their oars, they rowed
vigorously towards the strange little ship. Presently one of them,
peering forward, said: “The E. A. Johnson. That’s her name. I
can see it distinctly. Ain’t she Burr’s boat, from Islip, Long Island?”
“Burr’s boat right enough,” the man who had spoken first
replied. “I wonder can anything be amiss with the old guy.”
He leaned forward, one hand still on the rudder, and gazed
earnestly at the sloop. Then he shouted: “Ship ahoy! You there!”
There was no reply. “Ship ahoy!” he yelled again, and again there
was no answer.
They were close alongside the sloop, and in another minute
all three men were on her deck. An uncanny silence greeted them,
and what they saw made them start back in horror. The deck was
a shambles. On the sails, mast, stove and companion hatch there
was blood, blood everywhere, while on the starboard quarter was
the imprint of a bloody hand. It seemed to move as they stared
at it. It was the same below deck, whither all three men went
with faltering steps, keeping close to one another.
All was in confusion. Everything was saturated with blood.
There was an unbroken line of blood from the cabin to the guards,
and on the guards were marks of a hatchet and another imprint
of a bloody hand. There was something horribly sinister about it,
and like the other imprint it seemed to move as they looked at it.
It made them creep. A hammer, about three pounds in weight,
covered with blood and hair, was lying in a corner.
“Well, this licks creation!” one of the men exclaimed, after
they had stood for a while gazing in horror at the ghastly, gory
1Mews o f the World, April 8, i860, and June 24, i860.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
scene. “To account for all this blood, I reckon a whole crew must
have been butchered. But who can have done it and where are
the bodies?”
They looked at one another with awe-stricken faces and con­
tinued to search. At every step they took there were signs of a
struggle, deep cuts in the woodwork, and more pools of blood.
There was evidence that the murderer or murderers had met with
some resistance, that a terrible fight had taken place, and that
robbery was probably the motive for the murders, as chests and
boxes had been broken open, and their contents scattered about the
floor.
The three men, although they looked everywhere, were unable
to find any bodies, and at last satisfied that it was useless to search
any longer, they proceeded to tow the sloop to the shore. When
they arrived they told their story and handed over the E. A. Johnson
into the custody of the New York Harbour authorities.
News that a horrible massacre had taken place on a Long Island
ship spread far and wide, and New York papers soon had startling
headlines about the murders on the E. A. Johnson, while reporters
besieged the quays, seeking the latest news. There was little,
however, to tell at first beyond the already described discovery.
The E. A. Johnson had left Port Key on Sunday, March 18,
under the command of Captain Burr, who had with him a crew of
three men, the two brothers Watts and a man named Hicks. Burr,
who was about thirty-four years of age, was much respected on Long
Island, where he was regarded as a man of some means. In addition
to being the skipper of the E. A. Johnson, he also owned the sloop.
The brothers Watts also bore good reputations, but apparently
little was known about Hicks.
After the E. A. Johnson left port on the day named, nothing was
seen or heard of her until an early hour on the morning of March
21, when a schooner collided with her near Staten Island. She
then appeared to be very unmanageable—indeed the collision,
fortunately not serious, was entirely due to her erratic behaviour.
Only one man was visible on her deck, and the moment the collision
occurred he was observed, greatly to the astonishment of those on
board the schooner, to run to her bows, where he mysteriously
disappeared.
The captain of the schooner, having satisfied himself that
neither of the vessels had incurred any damage, went on his way.
He thought that the behaviour of the E. A. Johnson was rather
I S L A N D , SEA A N D C A V E H A U N T I N G S 93
extraordinary but never suspected that there was anything seriously
amiss with her. About an hour later she was found abandoned
by the three men in the boat. What in the meantime had become
of the man in the bows was a mystery.
For some reason which the Press either could not or would
not divulge, Hicks was suspected from the very first, and on the
police going to his lodgings and finding there Captain Burr’s
watch and things belonging to the Wattses, he was searched for,
found, charged with murdering Burr and the two Wattses, and
imprisoned. He at once admitted his guilt, and declared that he had
been urged to kill the three men by an evil spirit that had given
him no peace until he committed the murders. He described the
spirit, and said that it had followed him to the sloop from the
Saladin, a vessel on board which there had been a mutiny, accom­
panied by much bloodshed.
If what he said was true he must have been known by another
name, because there was no Hicks on the Saladin at the time of the
mutiny, in which he declared the evil spirit had made him partici­
pate. His confession was remarkable. The following is an extract
from it:
“On the night of March 20 there were five people on
board the E. A. Johnson, namely, Burr, the two Watts, myself
and the evil spirit. It was between 9 and 10 o’clock; one of
the Watts brothers was in the bows, when my companion, the
evil spirit, who was at my elbow, told me to get ready. I seized a
heavy instrument and, accompanied by the evil spirit, crept
into the bows. Watts was busily occupied scanning the water
in front of the vessel, and the evil spirit and I taking him un­
awares, despatched him with blows on the head.”
Hicks proceeded to describe the other two murders. The
other brother Watts, who was below deck with the captain, gave no
trouble, but the captain, who was a powerful man, fought desper­
ately. Hicks succeeded in killing him, and threw the bodies of
his victims into the sea. He was tried, found guilty and executed.
It was estimated that at least 10,000 witnessed the execution.
The sloop in which the murders had been committed was
declared to be haunted by the ghost of Hicks and his evil spirit
companion, and such dreadful sounds were heard proceeding from
it nightly that it was ultimately demolished.
94 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
M O R E NASTY SEA G H O STS
T h e sea figures many times in the ghost-lore of Scotland. The
Rev. Walter Gregor in his book Notes on the Folk-Lore of the North-
East of Scotland relates the case of an apparition appearing to the
crew of a ship somewhere off the Scottish coast.
A Scotch sailor, for some unknown reason, murdered his
lady love and, in order to evade arrest, joined the crew of a ship
that was about to sail for some distant port.
One stormy night soon after the ship had started on her voyage,
and was still almost within sight of the Scottish shore, the man who
was on the look-out saw a strange light in the distance. He at once
reported it to the officer on deck, and soon everyone on board the
vessel was watching it, wondering what it could be, as it was not
like a ship’s light. It gradually drew nearer and nearer until it was
close to the ship, when it assumed the form of a lovely golden­
haired girl, clad in a gleaming white robe.
She stepped lightly and gracefully on to the bulwark of the
ship, and pointing at the trembling murderer, accused him of
having killed her and bade him come to her. For a moment or two
he stood rooted to the deck, too overcome with surprise and horror
to move or utter a sound, and then, ghastly pale and with a look of
terror in his eyes, he obeyed her summons. Regarding him reproach­
fully, she clasped him in her arms and dragged him with her over
the side of the ship and out of sight of the appalled crew.
Phantom ships are not confined to African waters, as was
the phantom ship of Captain Marryat; they haunt the seas in all
parts of the world. There is hardly a maritime nation that has
not got its spectral bark. Scotch sailors still have their stories of
phantom vessels that have been seen at times off the coasts of
Scotland.
One such story is of a phantom ship that appears in the Solway
immediately before a wreck in that water. It is supposed to be the
phantom of a vessel containing a bridal party that was maliciously
wrecked in the Solway many years ago.
A Highland legend records how a large sailing ship, the
Rotterdam, went down with all hands off the coast of Scotland, and
how ever afterwards the phantom of that ship has appeared in
Scottish waters prior to a big maritime disaster.
I S L A N D , S EA A N D C A V E H A U N T I N G S 95
Cunningham in his Traditional Tales of the English and Scottish
Peasantry gives a graphic account of two phantom pirate ships
that haunt the Firth of Forth. The story goes that two Danish
pirate ships terrorized for a long time the North Sea. Peaceful
vessels were seized by the pirates, and all on board them horribly
murdered. At last the day of retribution came. The pirate ships
were wrecked in a great storm, and all on board them perished.
For their many evil deeds the pirates were doomed to haunt the
North Sea to the Day of Judgment. On the anniversary of their
destruction the phantoms of the pirate ships, enveloped in an eerie
light, appear in the Firth of Forth. Their appearance always entails
bad luck on those who have the misfortune to see them. Luckily,
few people possess that faculty.
An elderly reader of my books told me that when she was
a girl she often stayed with some of her relations, who lived near
Arbroath. In the summer she used to go to Lunan Bay with them,
and if the sea was not too rough she visited the caves.
An old boatman told her that he had seen strange sights in the
Bay. On one occasion he and several other men were standing on
the shore talking, when they saw a large ship about a mile distant.
Although the sea was not very rough she was plunging and rolling
as if in the throes of a violent storm. They could tell by her build
that she was not a British ship, but they could see no indication of
her nationality. She seemed to be in distress, and they were wonder­
ing what they ought to do about it when she suddenly vanished.
They rowed out to about where they had seen her vanish, but there
was no trace of any ship. No bodies and no wreckage from the ship
were ever found, and no vessel of her size was reported missing.
She was a phantom ship, and a wreck occurred in the Bay soon
after her appearance. She was always regarded as the inevitable
harbinger of a bad maritime calamity.
The boatman and his brother were on the beach one evening,
when they heard a strange voice from the sea call out the names of
three men whom they knew. Within a few days the three men died.
Two were drowned and the third man met with a fatal accident.
On another occasion the boatman was alone in his boat one
night, some little distance from the shore, when he suddenly saw
a strange man in seaman’s clothes, sitting in the bow of the boat,
gazing earnestly at him. The man was ghastly pale, and there
was a dreadful wound on one side of his face.
“Tell my sister Mary Smith, who lives in Arbroath,” the
D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
96
strange man said, “that she must on no account marry Andrew.1
He is no good.”
“Andrew whom?” the boatman asked.
There was no reply. The strange man had vanished.
The boatman hunted for Mary Smiths in Arbroath and dis­
covered several, but only one of them had a brother. This Mary
Smith was contemplating marrying a man named Andrew, who
bore an excellent character, but when she heard the boatman’s
strange story and found that his description of the apparition he
had seen in his boat tallied with that of her brother, Keith, who
was reported to have been lost at sea, she broke off her engagement
to Andrew. She had always been influenced by Keith, although he
had never been very kind to her and was generally regarded as a
ne’er-do-well. He had never liked Andrew, who had disapproved
of his conduct.
The boatman’s tale interested me because I had so seldom
heard of a ghost speaking.
T H E H A U N T E D O R K N EY S
T h e r e are innumerable legends and traditional stories about
the Island of Rousay, which is separated from the mainland of
Orkney by a narrow strait. At a certain hour of the day two tides
meet in the strait in a furious whirl of foam and spray that means
instant destruction to any very small craft that ventures in that
water.
One traditional story of the strait is about a young fisherman
who was madly in love with an Orkney girl, the daughter of a
native of Skye, who was gifted with second sight.
The girl declared that she would not marry him unless he
proved his love for her by sailing through the strait alone in a frail
craft at the hour when the tides met at the place known as the
Enhallow Roust. The girl’s father told her that he had a vision,
in which he saw the young man’s boat overturned in the strait and
the young man drowned, and begged her to stop the young man
from attempting such a perilous feat.
She refused to listen to him, and warned the young man that
unless he imperilled his life for her sake she would marry his rival,
the son of a Wick tradesman. Unable to brook the idea of her
1Not the real name. All names in this story are fictitious.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
98
and walked inland. After they had gone a little way they realized
that they were not on Enhallow Island, but in some quite unfamiliar
country.
Presently they came to a large house, illuminated by many
candles. A tall, beautifully dressed woman appeared in the open
doorway of the house and beckoned to them. To their amazement
she was their missing daughter. She invited them into the house,
gave them a splendid repast, and told them that she was comfort­
ably married and living on an island that was not to be found on
any chart.
While she was talking to them a great brown wisp1 rolled
through the room and into the adjoining kitchen. Immediately
afterwards the husband of their daughter, a tall, handsome young
man, came into the room from an inner chamber and warmly
welcomed them. When they were leaving they asked their daughter
to return to her old home with them. She refused, saying that she
was far too happy with her husband. She gave her father a knife,
and told him that while he kept it his fishing would never fail, and
he would be able to visit her whenever he wished. After a tender
farewell the girl’s parents once again put to sea: On their way
home the old man accidentally dropped the knife overboard.
Ill luck followed. His fishing never prospered, and although
he tried many times to locate the island on which his daughter
lived so happily, neither he nor anyone else was ever able to find a
trace of it.
There are many stories and legends about the Standing Stones
of Stennis, in Orkney. They stand in a circle in the middle of a
lonely moor. Antiquarians try to account for their presence there,
but there is no record or clue of any kind to help them. Whence
they came and what they signify are insoluble mysteries.
All over the island there are traces of an ancient tribe who
lived in brochs or semi-subterranean dwelling-places. Harrowing
sounds are sometimes heard coming from the brochs, and nude
forms, that bear little resemblance to present-day human beings,
are seen gliding around in close proximity to the brochs.
A party of tourists is said to have visited Stennis Isle one summer
afternoon in order to see the Standing Stones, about which they
had heard very strange stories. On approaching the Stones they
saw tall blue flames suddenly emerge from them, and leap around
the Stones in an eerie circle. The tourists were so scared that they
1A huge ball of twisted rope used in Orkney for thatching.
I S L A N D , SEA AN D C A V E H A U N T I N G S 9 9
beat a hasty retreat to their ship and did not feel quite safe until
Stennis Island was a mere speck in the distance.
There is also a story about an Orkney man who went to sleep
one afternoon with his back against one of the Stones. He dreamed
that bare bony arms suddenly clutched hold of him, and a hoarse
voice said: “Malcolm Mackie, you belong to us. Here you must
stay.”
Malcolm thought that he begged very earnestly to be allowed
to go home, and that the voice said, “Promise to return here this
day week, and we will permit you to depart.”
Malcolm promised, and immediately awoke. On returning to
his home he told his wife about his dream and she said: “There is
only one thing that will prevent you from keeping your promise.
Rest easy, Malcolm Mackie; I will see that one thing is done.”
She borrowed iron of all shapes and sizes from her friends
and neighbours, and when the week had elapsed she made Malcolm
lie in bed and surrounded him with the iron which she had collected.
Whenever he felt impelled to keep his promise, she got more iron
and kept on doing this till the seventh day had passed, and he was
free. But he never again went anywhere near the Standing Stones
of Stennis Island.
T H E M O A N IN G CAVE
T h e following account of the haunting of the Moaning Cave in
Argyle is based on a traditional ghost story of that county in The
Ladies' Cabinet.1
Mr. George M’Readie set out on horseback one day from his
home in Inverary for Glen Shiel, where his uncle and Miss Flora
M’Alister, to whom he was engaged to be married, both lived. It
was a long and intricate journey in those days, necessitating putting
up for the night at inns on the way.
He had got within about twenty miles of his destination when
he met one of his friends, who told him that there was a shorter
route to Glen Shiel than the one which he was proposing to pursue,
but that he would not advise him to take it as it would lead him
past a cavern called the Moaning Cave, on account of certain
strange sounds issuing nightly from it, that were no doubt ex­
plainable on quite natural grounds but which the people in the
1 1836.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
locality attributed to evil spirits. “In such dread is the Moaning
Cave held,” his friend added, “that no one will ever go near it
alone after nightfall.”
M’Readie decided to go by the longer route. He parted with
his friend at a spot where several roads met and rode on alone.
He kept thinking of a dream which he had had recendy. It was
this: He fancied that he was on a wide stretch of waste land strewn
with great fantastically shaped rocks that were all gazing fixedly
at him with heavily lidded eyes; their black grotesque shadows
stood out with uncanny clearness on the moonlit soil. There were
no trees, no shrubs, no vegetation of any kind, only rocks. Facing
him was the yawning mouth of a cave, and in the middle of it was a
great black rock bearing a strange and startling resemblance to a
face, all the features of which were clearly defined.
The strangeness of the face was indescribable. It did not belong
to this world, but to a world inhabited by spirits possessing powers
and qualities beyond the ken of human beings. A feeling of the
utmost awe stole over M’Readie as he looked at the face. It terrified
yet fascinated him, and while he stood staring at it, too spellbound
to move, he heard ghastly moaning, which seemed to come from
the cave, and eerie whispering voices, some of them bidding him
to go at once and others telling him to stay. He awoke with the
sounds lingering in his ears.
His mind was so engrossed in recollecting his dream that he
did not heed the course he was pursuing, until the stumbling of his
horse in a small hollow broke the chain of his thoughts. He glanced
around him and realized that he had gone astray and deviated into
a sort of wild pastureland. There was no sign of any highroad, only
the rough, stony track along which he had been travelling appar­
ently for some time.
He felt impelled to press forward. The further he advanced, the
wilder and more desolate grew the scenery. There were no longer
any trees, only gaunt, naked rocks that cast queer, dark shadows
on to the bare ground. They reminded him very unpleasantly
of the fantastically shaped rocks which he had seen in his dream.
Presently he descried what he was now expecting to see, the yawning
mouth of a cave. His horse came to an abrupt halt, and it was only
with the greatest difficulty that he could induce it to proceed.
As he drew nearer to the cave he heard, coming seemingly
from it, the same fitful, unearthly moaning that he had heard in
his sleep, and at the entrance of the cave, in the exact position
I S L A N D , SEA A N D C A V E H A U N T I N G S IOI
which it had occupied in his dream, was the rock with the indes­
cribably strange, dread-inspiring face. The brilliant moonlight
threw every feature into startling relief. There was nothing to
indicate its sex, but if it had any sex he felt that the sex was feminine
rather than masculine.
It had the same extraordinary, irresistible attraction for him
that it had had in his dream, and he was urging his frightened
horse to draw nearer to it when a voice from somewhere behind
him called out, “Come away from there!” He turned round and
saw a man on a white horse. “Don’t go any nearer to that cave,”
the man said. “It’s the Moaning Cave.”
The powerful magnetic influence of the rock abruptly ceased;
its face no longer fascinated; it was just a rocky semblance, a
crude caricature of a face. He drew away from it sharply and
joined the horseman, who told him about the evil spirits that were
believed to haunt the cave, and showed him the road to Glen Shiel.
He arrived safely at his uncle’s house. The date of his marriage
to Flora M’Alister was fixed. A week prior to it he dreamed again
about the Moaning Cave. The second dream was even more vivid
than the first dream. In it he found himself once again in front of
the great black rock, which stood in the yawning mouth of the
Moaning Cave. The peculiar beauty of the face fascinated and
enchanted him to an even greater extent than it had done before,
and he was gazing adoringly at it when he saw something in its
eyes that terrified him. He tried to run but found, to his dismay,
that he was rooted to the ground. “Promise that you will return
here in seven days,” a voice said, “and you will be allowed to
depart.” Frantic to escape he promised, whereupon the bonds that
had held him limb-tied slackened, and he awoke.
The clock on the landing outside his room struck two.
Exactly a week later, a few minutes before two o’clock in
the morning, he was seen galloping madly towards the Moaning
Cave. Later in the day members of the wedding-party, who were
anxiously searching for the absent bridegroom, found his dead body
lying on the ground in front of the great black rock. He had kept his
promise.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
T H E BLACK CAVE OF D E A T H
M a n y legends and traditional stories of ghostly phenomena
are still current among the inhabitants of the Hebrides. Eig is
wild and romantic without being perhaps what is generally con­
sidered extremely picturesque. The cataract and the mountain
stream harmonize well with the crude and rugged scenery. The
occasional scream of an eagle accords with a place where everything
around is wildly magnificent.
Adjoining Eig is a smaller island, which contains the Black
Cave of the M’Donalds. The entrance to it is very narrow, but
the interior is capacious, and according to the popular belief pre­
valent in the Western island is periodically very badly haunted.
Terrible cries of agony are heard and gruesome lights and fearful
forms are seen by anyone who is bold enough to enter the cave
alone during the night. The following legend is supposed to furnish
an explanation for the haunting i1
When a clan of the M’Donalds possessed Eig, the little island
close beside it served as a kind of out-farm where the cattle were
pastured during the summer months, and it was the duty of the
fair daughters of the M’Donalds to proceed thither for the purpose
of milking the kine. One evening a joyous party had concluded
this work and were amusing themselves on the greensward with
harmless but boisterous mirth, when the sound of a pibroch was
heard at some distance. The shouts of laughter ceased, and the
girls listened attentively.
“It is the young chieftain,” said Mary, “who has come in
old Allan’s boat to take us home,” and her eyes, bright and blue,
glistened with animation as she spoke; for Mary, the fairest of
Eig’s charming daughters, was beloved by the young M’Donald.
Her gay companions were of the same opinion, and snatching
up their milk pails, they hastened towards the shore. They had
not advanced far when the music sounded nearer to them, and as
they turned the angle of a projecting rock their astonished eyes
encountered not the well-known plaid of the M’Donalds but the
dark tartan of the M’Leods. With wild screams they dashed their
vessels on the ground and fled, but though terror lent them a
momentary energy, their speed was unavailing; a dozen Highlanders
1ThePocket Magazine, Vol. I, 1829.
I S L A N D , SEA A N D C A V E H A U N T IN O S IO3
quickly overtook them, and their chief held the frightened Mary
in his arms.
“Unhand me, dark chief of the M’Leods,” she cried. “You
and the M’Donalds seldom meet but on the brown moor foot to
foot, and your hands seldom grasp each other save in the grasp of
death. You once met on the broad heaths of Mornish.”
“That is true,” M’Leod said. “We met as you say, but your
chieftain was surrounded by hundreds of his followers, and did I
not hear you shrieking when their dirks drew my blood in torrents?
I bore you to the green-sward where, faint with the loss of blood
and reeling with the deep, dark gashes on my brow, I sank to the
ground, and when my dizzy senses awoke you were gone. The sea
danced brightly on the prows that bore you off, and I lay cold
and stiffened in my gore. But now, girl, you are mine; your chieftain
is not here, and were he here, he should not tear you from me.”
In the meantime the M’Donalds were congregated round the
wassail bowl. Each one of them grew more clamorous as the liquor
circulated, and they were planning a predatory expedition to the
mainland, when Allan, the aged boatman, rushed into the building,
exclaiming, “Death to the M’Leods!”
“Death to the M’Leods!” the clansmen shouted, starting to
their feet, while every man had his hand on his claymore.
“Death to the M’Leods!” Allan exclaimed again. “They
have seized the daughters of Eig.”
“Not Mary?” the young chief of the M’Donalds ejaculated.
“Speak, Allan. Has Mary fallen into their hands?”
Allan nodded. “Going, as I was wont, to the island to bring
home the maidens, I heard cries of distress and espied the dark
tartan of the M’Leods.”
“That’s enough,” the chief exclaimed. “Say no more.”
In a few minutes the strait between the two islands was covered
with the boats of the M’Donalds. It was not yet evening, and the
M’Leods were still on the little island. When they saw their here­
ditary enemies approaching, their minstrel started to sing their
war song, and a fierce encounter soon commenced. The M’Donalds
triumphed, and the chief of the M’Leods was among the slain.
On the return of the victorious M’Donalds to Eig with the
girls they had rescued, there was great rejoicing, which was inter­
rupted by the advent of a fleet of M’Leods, who were thirsting for
revenge. The M’Donalds fought gallantly against overwhelming
numbers, but were forced to retire to the little island near Eig.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
There they sought refuge in the Black Cave, where they were
besieged by the exulting M’Leods, who declared that they would
all be killed unless they surrendered their young chief.
“Let my blood appease their wrath,” the chiefof the M’Donalds
said. “Think of your wives and children.”
But his clansmen cried, “No, we all die together.”
The M’Leods lit a huge fire at the mouth of the cave. The
M’Donalds attempted to rush out of the cave, but the entrance was
too small to give egress to more than one at a time, and those
who had the temerity to venture out were quickly dispatched by
the claymores of the M’Leods. The smoke from the huge fire, blown
by the wind, penetrated to the innermost recesses of the cave.
There was no escape from it. The suffocating M’Donalds grew
desperate. Their cries of anguish were dreadful. The M’Leods
mocked them and heaped additional fuel on the fire. Gradually
the cries and groans grew fainter and fainter, and finally ceased.
Every M’Donald within the cave was dead.
And ever since that time the cave has been haunted by their
ghosts and the ghosts of the cruel M’Leods.
H A U N TE D HILLS, MOORS AND VALLEYS
H IL L AND M O O R G H OSTS
R o b e r t H unt in his Popular Romances of the West of England,1
writes about the Gump in Cornwall, which he says has long
been the playground of the little people, some of whom were
cruel.
An old St. Just man, who had been told that there was treasure
on the Gump, resolved to get some of it. He stole towards the place
one night when there was a harvest moon, and was joined by a
dark shadow, which moved along by his side on the moonlit road.
When he drew near to the Gump he heard ravishing music, slow
and solemn, and quick and gay. It moved him from tears to laugh­
ter, and in spite of his age he could not refrain from dancing to it.
It surrounded him and seemed to come from beneath the surface
of the ground.
Eventually there was a startling crash, and the hill opened
before him. An amazing sight met his astonished and dazzled eyes.
He saw everywhere variously coloured lights. Every blade of grass
was hung with lamps, every bush was illuminated.
An army of musicians emerged from the opening in the hills,
followed by a troop of soldiers with an immense banner. At their
heels came hundreds of spriggans, who crowded round the old man.
Next came a crowd of little creatures. Some of them were laden
with vessels of silver and gold, and goblets covered with precious
stones; others brought the most delicious food and wine, which
they placed on golden tables. When they had finished preparing
a splendid banquet, out of the hill trooped very many lovely
ladies, arrayed in glittering, costly robes, accompanied by an
equal number of richly apparelled men. The music appeared to
give new life to all the old man’s senses. His sight became clearer,
his hearing better, and his sense of smell much keener. The frag­
rance of flowers filled the air.
When all the lovely ladies and their escorts were seated, a
signal was given by the most magnificently attired of all the males,
who wore a crown, and was addressed as Prince, and the feasting
commenced.
The old St. Just man, who was watching the scene with covetous
eyes, stealthily approached the Prince and the Princess, whose
1Chatto & Windus.
107
io8 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
jewels were the most brilliant of any of the ladies present. The
old man’s mouth watered as he looked at them.
He came nearer and nearer to the royal couple, and was
about to clap his large old hat over them, they were both tiny,
when there was a shrill whistle. The music at once ceased, the
banqueters and banquet vanished, the lights were extinguished,
and everywhere was dark. The old man tried to move, but he was
on his back, bound hand and foot. He tried to shout, but he was
tongue-tied.
Nasty crawling creatures ran over him, and the thongs that
held him caused him the greatest agony. He lay in this state until
the day had dawned, when the thongs loosened. He shook himself,
and was free. He rose, wet, cold, hungry and no little ashamed.
Sulkily and slowly, for he was very stiff, he made his way home.
He never ventured to the Gump again, even in the daylight.
A vicar named Jago, of Wendron in Cornwall, was believed
by his parishioners to have intercourse with the Devil. They were
all afraid of him, and declared that he had second sight, and could
cast spells on anyone who offended him. He could detect a thief
and liar by merely looking at them.
People used to see him at crossroads and lonely spots at night,
conversing with the evil spirits that haunted those places. The
very horse on which he rode, a huge black animal, was said to
possess supernatural powers and to be able to appear and dis­
appear in the most unaccountable and alarming manner.
Dartmoor has its mischievous pixies, who lead people astray
and steal things from houses. Probably the best known of all the
Dartmoor ghosts is the phantom black hound, which some people
still believe to be the spirit of Lady Howard, earthbound on account
of her many bad deeds. The hound haunts the road between
Tavistock and Okehampton, and brings misfortune to whoever
sees it.
There have been at various times rumours of phantom houses,
phantom horses and phantom dogs on Dartmoor, in addition to the
black hound.
Exmoor also has its ghosts. A road between Exford and Porlock
has such a sinister reputation that few people care to walk along
it alone at night. The ghost of a man, who murdered his child,
haunts one part of Exmoor, and terrifies all who encounter it to
such a degree that they are ill for a long time afterwards. The ghost
of a farmer, who drowned himself in Pinkworth Pond, is said to
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O OR S A N D V A L L E Y S IOg
haunt the neighbourhood of the pond and entail bad luck on all
who encounter it. Westcote in his View of Devonshire says a barrow
near Challacombe is haunted, and that anyone interfering with the
barrow has always met with serious misfortune.
There was formerly a similar superstition in connection with
barrows, which were called the graves of the giants, in Somerset.
It was thought wicked to disturb them, and that anyone doing so
would fall ill and probably die.
The same belief prevailed in the south-west of Ireland. At
Castlehaven, near Bandon in County Cork, there are seven large
menhirs, none of which can be removed without incurring the
death of the person making the attempt. A labourer, who was
ordered to remove one of the stones, was crushed to death by it. It
was forthwith restored to its original position.
About one mile from Bruton there is a hill called Creek, which
is one of the highest hills in Somerset. The view from its summit
is very extensive. People who have been there have asserted that
they have been able to see vessels in the Bristol Channel at a dis­
tance of thirty miles.
The base of Creek Hill is surrounded by a spacious area of
several acres, which not so very long ago was inhabited by hares
and even badgers.1 Many stories have been circulated from time
to time about very alarming and harmful supernatural phenomena
on the hill and in the land adjoining it.
About the year 1849 colour was given to these rumours by
the discovery of two human skeletons, laid transversely towards
each other. They were unearthed by labourers, who were engaged
in excavating stone in a quarry at the foot of Creek Hill. On
being disturbed the skeletons crumbled into dust at once. It was
conjectured that the place where they were found was the scene of a
batde between the men of Somerset and the Normans, and that the
two skeletons were those of men who had fallen in the conflict. Be
that as it may, the haunting is said to have continued after the
discovery of the bones.
A workman passing by the hill on his way home one night
was nearly scared to death by a tall figure that rushed past him,
and seemed to dive into the earth after it had gone a few yards.
On another occasion a farmer, who was passing by the hill at
night, saw someone lying on the ground. Wondering if the person
was ill or had met with an accident, the farmer approached the
1Farley's Bristol Journal, February 16, 1850.
n o D A N G E R O U S G H O ST S
recumbent figure, and was about to speak to it, when it suddenly
vanished. The next moment he heard loud peals of mocking,
diabolical laughter, and was so terrified that he took to his heels,
and never ceased running until he arrived at his farm. All the way
there he heard footsteps bounding along after him. When he was
in the farmyard he looked behind him and saw a tall, shadowy
form bounding away in the direction of Creek Hill.
T H E E IL D O N H ILLS
T h e r e is something about the Eildon Hills that is strangely
individual, something not easy to define, and which is not to be
found elsewhere in Great Britain.
As one stands gazing over the counties of Roxburgh and
Selkirk, with a faint tang of the not very far distant North Sea
in the bracing air, one is affected by more than mere panorama.
Look towards ancient Melrose, with its ruined abbey and tomb of
Scotland’s mightiest magician, Michael Scott; towards legend-
impregnated Jedburgh, whose castle furnished Edgar Allan Poe with
the theme of the Masque of the Red Death; and towards the far-
famed haunted Ford of Longformacus; wherever your eyes wander
there is scarcely a district that does not figure in ghost- or fairy-lore.
The Eildons have ever been the haunts of ghosts and fairies,
and if one is what is termed psychic and sensitive, one can sense
the near proximity of the supernatural on and around each of the
three hills. The supernatural of the Eildons is peculiar to the
Eildons. It thrills and fascinates, and sometimes terrifies. It savours
of enchantment, of the spells and magic of Fairyland, in such a
measure that one would hardly be surprised were there to appear,
in all her radiant beauty, the Elfin Queen, arrayed like a goddess
of the woods, as Scott describes her, or a troupe of grotesque
gnomes or lovely oreads. Possibly it was consciousness of this near
proximity of the Fairy World, which he loved so much, that was
mainly responsible for the magnetic attraction that the Eildon
Hills would seem to have had for Sir Walter Scott, and for the
inspiration which led him to compose some of his most beautiful
works.
According to a well-known legend, the loftiest of the three
Eildon Hills contains a cavern, in which Scotland’s most renowned
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O ORS A N D V A L L E Y S I I I
predictor and seer, Thomas of Learmouth, alias Thomas of Ercil-
doune, alias Thomas the Rhymer, and alias Son of the Dead
Woman, was held in captivity, probably not unwillingly, by the
beautiful Queen of the Mountain Fairies.
The spot where he first met her is said to be still marked by a
stone.
The predictions of Thomas are quoted in the works of Barbour,
Wyntoun and several other authors. In addition to predicting and
composing verses, Thomas was credited with performing many
miracles, not the least of which was that of restoring the dead to life.
In his Demonology and Witchcraft Sir Walter Scott tells the story
of the horse trader who sold a fine black horse to an old and vener­
able man, whom he encountered one day on one of the Eildon
Hills. The old man promised to pay for the horse, if the trader
met him at midnight at a spot on the hill which was known as the
Lucken-Hare. The trader went to the spot at the appointed hour
and found the old man waiting there for him. The old man paid
him in ancient coinage, and conducted him into a cavern con­
taining long rows of stalls, in each of which was a fully caparisoned
steed. At the feet of every horse lay an armed, sleeping warrior,
who, the aged man declared, would awaken at the winding of the
horn, when Scotland stood in greatest need of help; that would be
at the battle of Sheriffmuir.
Near the stalls lay a sword and horn, which the old man said
held the means of breaking the spell. The trader, impelled by
curiosity, took hold of the horn before the old man could stop
him, and wound it. The warriors and their horses immediately
awoke, and created such a disturbance that the trader dropped the
horn.
A loud voice repeated certain words, whereupon a blast of
cold wind swept the terrified trader out of the cavern and bore him
to the foot of the hill. He ran to his home as fast as his legs would
carry him. When he had recovered from his fright he tried repeatedly
to locate the cavern, but his efforts were in vain. Neither he nor
anyone else has ever found that cavern. The aged man in the
legend is supposed to have been Thomas of Ercildoune, who is said
to be sleeping in the cavern along with the warriors and their
horses.
According to Veitch, King Arthur and his knights also lie
asleep in a cave somewhere in the Eildon Hills.
Whereas Thomas was seemingly guilty of nothing more harmful
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
than predicting very unpleasant things, the same cannot be said of
the great Scottish wizard, Michael Scott. He was supposed to have
resorted to the Eildons in order to contact the Devil and his demons,
and to be tutored by them in the Black Art. He is credited with
being such a quick and studious learner that he soon became a
highly skilful black magician, and set up a school of wizardry
in the Eildons. Among his most apt and notorious pupils was the
bad Lord Soulis of Hermitage Castle, who was boiled alive at the
Nine-stane Rig in Liddlesdale.
The Eildon Hills no doubt owe much of their glamour and
romantic interest to Michael Scott and Thomas of Ercildoune, but
without them there would still be more than a measure of unusual
attraction in the three hills.
The strange beauty of the surrounding scenery, its many
historic relics, the wonderful invigorating air, and the sense and
consciousness of unreality would still all be there.
T H E PENTLANDS AND H A U N T E D C H U R C H E S
T h e Pentlands are among the hills in Scotland where ghosts were
said to glide about at night, witches to hold their covens, and
fairies to ride on the whirlwind and dance in the moonlight. The
belief in some of these things is still extant in the fastnesses of
mountain glens and other remote, secluded places in the Scottish
Highlands and Border lands.
One of the strangest of these beliefs, and which I am told still
lingers, is in the Scottish succubus, an evil spirit in the form of a
lovely woman who leads men astray. William Barton, a loose-
lived man of notoriously strong passions, was one of her victims.
He was arrested on suspicion of being a warlock and put in
prison. Under torture he said that a beautiful succubus had beguiled
him, and that he had given her his soul in exchange for fifteen
pounds of Scottish gold. She had baptized him under the name of
John Baptist and kept him well supplied with money.
When he was told that a stake had been prepared for his
execution, he laughed and said he did not care how many stakes
were got ready to roast him, because he would not die as there
would be no execution. Shortly afterwards the executioner, on
arrival at the prison, fell dead as he crossed the threshold. What
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O OR S A N D V A L L E Y S 113
greater proof could there have been of William Barton’s evil
power!
The magistrates who had tried him offered a reward to Mrs.
Martin, the executioner’s widow, if she would undertake her
husband’s office, and strangle Barton before he was burnt. She
agreed to do this with great alacrity, clapping her hands gleefully
and saying, “Dool for this parting my dear burd Andrew Martin.”
Barton’s wife was imprisoned with him. At first she denied
that she was a witch, but a hint of tortures, even more agonizing
than the thumbscrew, made her admit that malice against one of
her neighbours had driven her to give herself up to the Devil,
who had baptized her by the name of Margaratus. She said that
she used to go to covens on the Pentland Hills and dance the carole
there, while the Devil played on his pipes, and in the interims of the
music made violent love to her.
That was considered to be more than enough to justify her
death. She and her husband were executed together. Mrs. Martin
strangled them both, and proved to be a very efficient and energetic
executioner.
No stories of Scottish witches would seem to be complete without
a reference to Robert Bums and the Auld Kirk at Alloway, where
the Devil, in the shape of a beast, played the pipes in the comer;
and where the coffins stood like open presses, each corpse holding
a light in its cold, unearthly hand; and whence there issued the
furious Cutty Sark and all her diabolical crew, intent on harming
the too-venturesome Tam O’Shanter.
Just beyond the kirk are two bridges over the River Doon.
It was towards the very old one that Tam spurred and switched
with all his might, well knowing that ghosts and witches dare not
cross a running stream. When he reached the middle of the arch
one of the hags sprang forward to seize him, but nothing was on
her side of the stream but the horse’s tail, which gave way to
her grasp as if touched by lightning.
In a Galloway version of the tradition, Mr. Cunningham
says:
“It is recorded that the witch seizing the horse by the
tail, stopped it in full career in the centre of the bridge, upon
which the farmer struck a back-handed blow with his sword, that
set him free and enabled him to pass the stream without further
molestation. On reaching his own house, he found to his horror
H
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
114
a woman’s hand hanging on the horse’s tail; and next morning
he was informed that the handsome wife of one of his neighbours
was dangerously ill and not expected to live.
“He went to see her; she turned away her face from him,
and absolutely refused to say what ailed her, upon which he
forcibly bared her wounded arm and, displaying the bloody
hand, accused her of witchcraft and dealings with^the devil.
Thereupon, it is added, she made a confession and, according
to the laws of the time, was condemned and burnt as a witch.”1
In a speech delivered at Cincinnati in the United States of
America, on one anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns, the
speaker said that there was no other Scot whose name was so
widely known as that of the bard of Ayrshire, and no other Scot
whose memory was so affectionately cherished by his countrymen
as that of the noble ploughman, the inspired poet, the gentleman
of Nature’s own making.
Another reputed haunted church in Scotland is the Auld Kirk
of Tullich, long in ruins. It is associated with the following ghostly
traditional happening :2
“Early in the eighteenth century, upon a very stormy
Sunday, the people of the village of Tullich gathered together
at the church, as their manner was, in good time; but the
minister in his somewhat distant manse, thinking that no one
would come out on such a day, resolved to stay at home. The
waiting people began to be very cold and proceeded to slap
their hands and stamp their feet, in order to get some heat. By
and by they thought that they would be better for some refresh­
ments, and ale was procured. Soon the ale began to do its work,
and what with its influence and the foot-stamping and hand­
clapping they bethought themselves that they might have a
dance; and ere the day was done the church was a wild scene of
revelry and unholy mirth.”
The story goes on to tell how in twelve months everyone
who took part in the dance was dead, and that always on the
anniversary of the dance their ghosts danced in the Auld Kirk of
Tullich, clapping their bony hands, stamping fleshless feet, and
1Life o f Robert Bums, p. 248.
2Picturesque Scotland, p. 402.
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O OR S A N D V A L L E Y S 1 15
shrieking with laughter, to the terror of all who heard them.
The dance became known as the Reel of Tullich and was performed
for many years. Maybe it still is danced.
The old church of Beauly was long said to be haunted. People
who passed by it at night testified to seeing gruesome lights within
its ancient walls and to hearing unearthly moans and groans and
diabolical laughter. Some of the people who summed up the
courage to watch in the churchyard at night were found there in
the morning, stretched on the ground, dead.
One very brave man who stayed one night in the church
saw a shrouded figure which struck at him. He dodged aside, and
it hit the wall with its fleshless fingers. He opened the church door,
just as it was coming at him for the second time, and fled home.
For many years afterwards the imprint of a hand on the wall of the
church, said to be that of the ghost, was shown to visitors to the
church.
In the Cathedral of Iona there is, or was some years ago, a
small nook called the tailor’s hole, in which a tailor was kept
to make clothes for the monks.1 He was so badly scared and tor­
mented by apparitions that he died. One of the most terrifying
of the ghosts was a fleshless hand, a great, grey paw with fingers,
that used to pat his face and buffet him.
A fisherman who stayed one night in another church in one
of the Western Isles fell asleep and was roused by a violent shaking.
He sat up and saw a tall figure, surrounded by a gruesome blue
light, standing in the pulpit staring down at him. It was dressed
like a monk, and its face was that of a skeleton. It pronounced the
names of seven people whom he knew and then vanished. He was so
terrified that he lost no time in getting out of the church and
running away from it. Within a few days all the people whose
names the ghost had pronounced were dead.
H A U N T E D BRIDGES
O n e of the worst haunted bridges in Great Britain is the Pont-y-
Glyn between Corwen and Cerrif-y-Drudion in Wales. Situated
in a picturesque glen, it spans a lovely mountain stream. In olden
days the glen was the headquarters of a band of atrocious robbers,
1 Witchcraft and Second Sight in the Higfdands and Islands o f Scotland, by J. G.
Campbell.
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O ORS A N D V A L L E Y S 117
pure and reaches a place where the glen narrows and becomes
precipitous. The river then glides smoothly on until it plunges from
a great height into a circular pool, believed to be fathomless. The
pool and a bridge in near proximity to it were for many years
believed to be haunted by evil spirits1 of the most frightful shapes,
which delighted in terrifying people and urging them to commit
suicide and murder.
Near the little town of Nenagh there is a bridge over a shallow
stream that sometimes becomes dry in the summer. The bridge
and the stream are reputed to be haunted. One day, about the
middle of the last century, a farmer was returning home from the
fair at Nenagh in an unusually gay mood, for he had met several
of his cronies at the fair and had had a jovial time with them. As
he approached the bridge he saw a white object, no bigger than his
hat, gliding along the road by his side. When he reached the bridge
his horse stopped short. He dismounted and tried to lead the horse
over the bridge, but it recoiled, snorted and trembled violently.
It was a bright moonlight night, and the farmer, chafed by the
horse’s obstinacy, and seeing nothing to account for it, lost his
patience with the poor animal, and plied his whip and spur in
earnest, using very bad language.
All of a sudden the horse shot forward, and the farmer saw
very clearly, standing on the bridge, the tall, shadowy form of a
woman in black. As he passed her she struck him on the shoulder.
The blow threw him forward upon the neck of his horse, which in
wild terror reached the door of his house at a mad gallop, and stood
there quivering and steaming all over. He was very faint and ill,
and got into the house with great difficulty. He begged his son to
summon a priest at once.
When his wife and daughter were getting him to bed they
saw distinctly the marks of five fingers on the flesh of his shoulder
where the spectre had struck him. Those marks, which resembled
in tint the hue of a body struck by lightning, remained imprinted
on his flesh and were buried with him.
From the moment he returned home that night he was a scared,
silent, broken-spirited man. It was early summer then. He died
before the close of the year. This is a well-known story. I heard it
when I was a boy, and reference is made to it in All the Year Round.2
The Auld Brig o’Doon is not the only haunted bridge in Scot-
1The Illustrated London News, June 29, 1861.
2 1870.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
land. For many years after the great Tay Bridge catastrophe
there were rumours of ghostly phenomena in the place where it
happened. The disaster occurred during the night of December
28, 1879, when there was the worst hurricane ever known in
Scotland. It struck the bridge furiously and swept away about
four hundred and twenty yards of it, shortly before the train
from Edinburgh to Dundee, with seventy passengers, reached the
bridge. There was no warning of the damage done to the bridge.
The train raced on to the bridge at great speed, and on reaching
the fatal gap, plunged down into the raging river. Not a soul was
saved.
I was a very little boy at the time, but I well recollect hearing
about the disaster very soon after it happened.
According to rumour a ghostly re-enaction of the appalling
catastrophe took place for many years. It was always on the anni­
versary of the tragedy. The following is a description of it by an
alleged eye-witness:
One dark, bitterly cold December night in the eighties of the
last century the narrator, at the time of the occurrence a young
business man, was waiting with a friend in a sheltered spot close
to the scene of the disaster, to see if the reports about the haunting
were really true. About the hour when the catastrophe occurred
they heard the dull murmur of an approaching train. The murmur
speedily grew into the hoarse roar of an express train. As the train
drew nearer the roar became louder and louder. The whistle sounded
shrill and piercing. There was a flash of lurid light, a still louder
roar as the phantom train sped past the two awe-stricken spectators
on to the phantom bridge. A few moments later there were the
most appalling screams, succeeded by a silence, broken only by the
fitful murmuring of the wind and the increasing monotone of the
electric wires. The narrator and his friend, who were very badly
frightened, hastened home and did not recover from the scare they
had experienced for many days.
After the tragic ending of the beautiful and promising young
actress Peg Entwhistle, the Arroyo Seco bridge over a canyon near
Hollywood was rumoured to be haunted by an evil spirit that
urged people to commit suicide. Over sixty people have leaped
from the bridge to their terrible death, and the majority of them
have been unsuccessful Hollywood actresses.
Lastly, there is the A1 Ponte Alla Carraia in Florence, which is
haunted by a phantom black goat, believed to be the spirit of a
H A U N T E D H I L L S , MO OR S AN D V A L L E Y S I IQ
man named Marocchio, who led a very evil life and on account of
his many sins was condemned to haunt the bridge until Doomsday.
Those who see the goat invariably experience grave misfortunes
and are sometimes prompted to kill themselves or kill other people.
TH E BROGKLEY COMBE GH OSTS
B r o c k l e y C o m b e , a romantic, wooded glen in Somersetshire,
is one of the numerous beauty spots within a few miles of Bristol,
and is easily accessible by road from that city. The loftiness of the
trees with their gnarled trunks and fantastically shaped branches,
the richness of the shrubs and varied hue of the lofty rocks flanking
either side of the glen, render it a favourite resort of lovers of nature
and picnickers. A winding uphill road runs through the Combe.
In the daytime, when the glen is aglow with sunshine and echo­
ing with the merry voices of adults and children, the idea of its
harbouring anything so terrifying as ghosts seems incredible, but in
the dead of night, when the Combe is darkened by the shadows of
the great rocks and tall trees, and there is a sepulchral silence,
broken only by the occasional hooting and wailing of night birds,
the place assumes a different character, and anyone who is at all
imaginative or psychic can well believe that it is haunted.
The Combe has long borne a reputation for being visited at
times by evil denizens of another world. There are many stories
relative to the haunting. One story is as follows:
Some gypsies spending one early autumn night in the glen were
startled by the sound of a heavy vehicle coming along the road at
a great rate. Several of the younger members of the tribe, urged by
curiosity, peered through the foliage bordering the road. To their
surprise they saw careering towards them a hearse-like coach drawn
by four black horses. As the coach drew nearer their astonishment
turned to terror when they perceived that the driver lacked a head.
They did not wait for a closer inspection but fled.
Another story about the phantom coach relates to Mr. Benjamin
Brown, of Birmingham. Brown, who was visiting friends near
Brockley, ridiculed the notion of the Combe being haunted.
“Ghosts!” he scoffed. “There aren’t such things, and if there
were, it would take more than a score of them to scare Ben Brown.”
Cigarette in mouth, his hat stuck jauntily on one side of his
well-oiled head, he strolled casually one moonlight night to the
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
Combe. A church clock solemnly sounded midnight as he entered
the glen. Not a soul was about. Not a sound was to be heard. The
silence of the grave greeted his advent. His bravado diminished, but
as yet only slighdy, and he strolled on. Armed with a few stones, he
crept behind a tree that overlooked the road.
Presently he heard the rumbling of heavy wheels and the
pattering of hooves. He held a stone ready to throw at the coach.
“I’m not afraid, not I,” he muttered, but his teeth chattered. As
the vehicle passed by him he hurled the stone with all his might.
To his dismay it was not the phantom coach, but a wagonette con­
taining a football team, returning from a late evening’sjollification
after a gallant victory. The stone narrowly missed the driver, who
stopped the wagonette.
Brown ran for his life. The footballers with shouts of anger tore
after him. Brown was no sprinter, and the footballers were over­
taking him, when round a bend in the road came a sinister hearse­
like vehicle drawn by four black horses. This time it was the phantom
coach. The footballers fled in one direction, and Brown in another.
When Brown arrived at the house of his friends all his breath was
gone, and his scepticism regarding ghosts was gone too.
A third story relating to the phantom coach is about a cyclist.
A young cyclist was riding a push-bicycle through Brockley Combe
one autumn night when he encountered the much-dreaded phan­
tom coach. It appeared so suddenly and came down the sloping
road so quickly that before he could move aside out of its way it
was on him. He was not conscious of contacting anything solid. A
current of icy air seemed to pass right through his body, and he
found himself stretched on the ground. It was some moments before
he was able to rise and continue on his journey. He had received
no physical injury, but his nerves were seriously affected. The
Brockley Combe phantom coach has that effect on people; it
shatters their nervous system.
Another phantom said to haunt the Combe is that of a parson
of very evil repute.
Two gentlemen, a doctor and a clergyman, were driving through
the glen one fine May night. Suddenly the horse became very rest­
less and evinced signs of most unusual nervousness. It seemed to
want to stop and then to turn. It quickened its pace and moved
nearer to one side of the road. The doctor, wondering what was
causing the horse to behave in such an odd manner, peered around
and saw walking a little ahead of him, in the centre of the road, a
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O O R S A ND V A L L E Y S 121
tall figure in a long black cloak, which reached nearly to the
ground. The doctor, who was in sound health, stared at the figure
and wondered if it was an optical illusion. There was something
very peculiar and unreal about it. The clergyman, who heard him
muttering to himself, enquired if he was addressing the phantom.
“Do you see what I have been seeing for the last few minutes?”
the doctor said.
“Yes,” the clergyman replied. “The figure of a man in a long
black cloak. Speak cheerfully to the horse or it may stampede. It’s
getting very restless.”
When they came to a wider part of the road, in the centre of
which was a triangular patch of turf, bare and treeless, the figure
disappeared. The doctor, who was almost out of breath from his
attempts to pacify and restrain the horse, said he thought the figure
had gone to the right of the patch of turf.
“It went neither to the right nor to the left,” the clergyman said.
“It faded right away and vanished. I was watching it intently. It
was not of this world.”
The horse, which had been so uneasy, was now quite calm and
tractable. It took them to their destination without any mishap. It
was never again, however, the same horse. It had always been
docile and easy to manage, but after that night in the Combe it was
very timid, nervous and restless.
According to Betsy Prodgen,1 who was born in Brockley about
the beginning of the last century, the ghost in the long black cloak
is that of the Rev. John Herbetson, a reputed very wicked rector,
who lived in the neighbourhood of Brockley Combe.
In the year 1776 Mr. James Stevens, a gentleman ofindependent
means, who lived not far from Brockley Combe, was injured by a
fall from a tree in the glen. Mr. Herbetson happened to witness the
accident and, thinking that he saw a way to benefit by it, he
provided means for removing Mr. Stevens to the latter’s home at
Chelvey.
Mr. Stevens was known to have amassed considerable wealth
before he retired from business, and Mr. Herbetson determined to
get some of his money. With that object in view Mr. Herbetson
took into his confidence an old college friend, whom he knew to
be as unscrupulous as he was himself. The two rogues paid daily
visits to the bedside of Mr. Stevens, exhibiting the deepest concern
at his injury. They completely deceived him and contrived through
1Bristol Times and Mirror, June, 1870.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
their artifices to obtain his signature to a will, drawn up by them­
selves. They were his sole beneficiaries. Mr. Stevens died soon after
signing the will.
Neither Mr. Herbetson nor his friend lived long to enjoy their
ill-gotten wealth. Mr. Herbetson was said to be in league with the
devil and to practise black magic in Brockley Combe in the dead of
night. The night he died a tall, shadowy figure, neither human nor
animal, but a terrifying mixture of both, was seen to enter the
rectory. Shrieks were heard coming from within the house, and it
was firmly believed that the Devil or one of his demons had come for
the rector’s sin-laden soul.
His ghost, clad in a long black cloak closely resembling the
garment which he wore in his lifetime, was seen in Brockley Combe
soon after his death, and it is rumoured to have appeared there
within the last few years.
Yet another ghost haunts the Combe. It is that of an old woman
who lived in a cottage near the Combe, and was murdered in or
close to it about the year 1812. Her appearances are the fore­
runners of misfortune to those who witness them. Fortunately they
are rare.
T H E M Y ST E R IE S OF SADDELL AND
N E ID P A T H GLEN
L e g e n d s and traditionary tales cluster round the Castle and
monastery of Saddell in Kintyre. The legend relating to the
monastery, now in ruins, is as follows:
Somerled, the famous Thane of Argyll and Lord of Kintyre,
murdered his stepfather and was haunted by his ghost.1He travelled
to Rome and confessed his crime to the Pope, who told him that he
would continue to be haunted until he built a Holy House between
two hills and two waters.
Saddell being the only place that in his knowledge answered to
this description, he went there, and founded a Cistercian Monas­
tery. The ghost never tormented him again. He did not live to see
the completion of the building. It was completed by his son,
Reginald, who assumed the title of king. In the cemetery of the
monastery are the graves of Archibald Campbell of Carradale, who
was killed at the battle of Inverlochy, and some of the Macdonalds.
1Chambers's Journal, 1882. •'
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O OR S A N D V A L L E Y S 123
The Macdonalds used to visit the O’Neills of Tyrone and the
O’Donnells of Tirconnell, and on one occasion Righ Fiongal
Macdonald returned from Ireland with the wife of one of the Irish
chieftains. Her aggrieved husband followed her to Saddell, where
he was seized by Macdonald and starved to death in a dungeon in
Saddell Castle. Three of his friends came over from Ireland to seek
redress from Macdonald, who received them with every show of
friendliness and hospitality, and while they were sleeping cut off
their heads.
The King of Scotland heard of this and ordered Macdonald to
appear before him. Macdonald obeyed and was compelled to swear
allegiance to the King. Directly he got back to Saddell Castle he
defied the King with impunity, and nothing was done. After the
crimes that he had perpetrated Saddell Castle was reputed to be
haunted by the ghosts of his victims and after his death by his ghost.
The Saddell Monastery, which has long been in ruins, is haunted
likewise by more than one grisly spectre.
A servant-maid of a farmer who lived in Glen Barr, seven miles
from Saddell, fell in love with the son of her employer. To get rid
of her the farmer told her that if she would cross the hills to Saddell
Monastery on a dark, stormy night and bring back the skull from
the tomb of the founder, he would permit her to marry his son. He
never imagined that the girl would dare to venture on such an
expedition.
To his intense surprise, however, she set off to Saddell on a
night when there was a heavy snowstorm, and returned in the
morning half dead with fatigue, but with the skull in her hand. She
said that when she got to the monastery she found the door open.
She groped her way to the founder’s tomb and was terrified on
hearing mysterious sounds all around her. She found the skull, and
on her way back to the door was pursued by invisible forms. She
got out of the building and closed the door behind her. As she did
so there was a rushing sound and something crashed against it. She
did not know how she ever got back to Glen Barr.
She had the skull and claimed the promised reward. The farmer
doubted the veracity of her tale. He did not believe that the skull
she showed him came from the monastery.
In order to make sure, however, he went to the monastery and
sought the tomb of its founder. The skull, which always occupied a
certain place on it, was no longer there. True to his word, the farmer
permitted the brave maid to marry his son.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
Sceptics regarding the supernatural suggested that the sounds
heard by the maid might have been due to the deer, which lived in
the grounds of the monastery and sought shelter in the building
itself on wet and stormy nights. The monastery was well known,
however, to harbour ghosts, so that the source of the sounds
remained a mystery.
The anonymous author of Ghostly Visitors gives the following
harrowing account of a haunting in a glen in the rear of Neidpath
Castle ruins in Peebleshire:
A lady named Hay was found horribly murdered in the glen
some generations ago, and her spirit is believed still to haunt the
scene of the crime.
One evening, not very many years ago, an old woman was
walking along the road, near to this spot, when she saw a head
adorned with lappets, or what was formerly known as ‘pearlin,’
moving along the top of the wall on her left. This strange mode of
progression was continued for some little time, when the head
turned round and the eyes looked at her. Then appeared the body,
which joined itself to the head, and both came over into the road
and stood up opposite to her. So visible was the apparition that the
woman distinctly saw a red line across the throat, at the sight of
which she fainted.
This fearful vision was also seen by a man residing in the
neighbourhood, and such was the effect it produced upon him that
he was ill for a fortnight.
T H E M O C K IN G G H O S T OF
W H I T T I N G D O N C O M M O N I
I n a letter addressed to the Editor of the Brierlay Hill and Stourbridge
Advertiser in December, 1872, the writer relates his encounter with
a very alarming and unusual species of ghostly phenomena.
He had been to a fair at Kinver, and was crossing Whittingdon
Common late at night on his way home, when he saw a very tall,
lanky figure coming towards him. It halted when a few feet from
him and stood silent and motionless. He could not see its face.
He struck at it with his stick. His stick encountered nothing
solid. It went right through the figure, which gave a low, chuckling
laugh. He struck at it again, and the same thing happened. The
stick passed through the figure, which again chuckled. He became
H A U N T E D H I L L S , M O OR S A N D V A L L E Y S I 2 5
frightened. He tried to run away but he was limb-tied, glued to the
ground. The figure never moved. It remained stationary in front
of him chuckling until daybreak, when it raised its long, skinny
arms over its head, and with a loud peal of derisive laughter
vanished.
The spell, which had rendered the writer of the letter paralysed,
was broken, and he continued on his way to his destination. He
reached it thoroughly exhausted and did not recover from his
weird experience for several days.
The letter is signed ‘E.T.’
EV IL LOVE
I n t h e year 1820 there were living in the village of Ludgvan, near
Penzance, a man named William Polgrain and his wife Sarah. They
were an ill-matched couple, and frequently quarrelled. William,
who was many years older than Sarah, was morose, irritable,
miserly and absurdlyjealous. He hated any kind of amusement and
spent most of his time indoors sitting by the fire, counting his money
and reading the Bible. Sarah, on the other hand, was very high-
spirited and loved company.
At the annual village fair she met a handsome young horse-
dealer, popularly known as Yorkshire Jack. They had drinks, and
from that time onward were constantly seen together. Polgrain got
to hear about it and forbade Sarah to seeJack. She declared that she
would see him as often as she pleased, and when Polgrain struck her,
she knocked him down, sat on him, scratched his face and beat him
unmercifully. The next-door neighbours, hearing his cries, came to
his rescue, and pulled the infuriated Sarah away from him, but not
before she had punished him very severely.
After this Yorkshire Jack came to the house frequently, and
whenever Polgrain remonstrated Yorkshire Jack held him, while
Sarah horse-whipped him. She told John Rodgers, another of her
lovers, that her husband was a jealous old fellow, and that if he
continued to grumble when Yorkshire Jack came to see her, she
would thrash him first and then settle him once and for all with
two pennyworth of white sugar.
The following day she bought arsenic in Penzance, pretending
that her home was overrun with mice. About a week afterwards
Polgrain visited a surgeon in Penzance and complained of giddiness
and pains in his stomach. The surgeon gave him medicine and came
to see him. A few days later he died. The surgeon who attended
him believed that his death was due to cholera and gave a certificate
to that effect.
Soon after his funeral rumours of foul play began to be circu­
lated, and became so insistent that the local authorities had his
body exhumed. On examination enough arsenic to kill three people
was found in it. Sarah Polgrain was arrested, tried, found guilty
and sentenced to death.1 The case against her was most damning;
1Annual Register, August, 1820, and contemporary Press.
129 I
i3° D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
it could scarcely have been more so had she been caught in the act
of administering the poison.
In prison she exhibited no indications of repentance, but
expressed an ardent desire to tear to pieces certain of the witnesses
who had testified against her. She hoped that she would meet her
husband in the next world, in order that she might give him another
sound beating.
The execution was at Bodmin. At her request Yorkshire Jack
was permitted to speak to her on the scaffold. Just before the death-
cap was put on her head, and the fatal noose was adjusted, she
looked earnestly at Jack, and in slow, measured tones said, “You
will?” After a little hesitation Jack replied quickly and nervously,
“I will.” She kissed him. They then separated, and he joined the
eagerly awaiting crowd. The executioner performed his grim task.
The crowd cheered, and the black flag was hoisted on the flagstaff.
Jack was never the same man after the execution. He became
taciturn and low-spirited. He told several of his friends that he had
sworn, whether living or dead, to marry Sarah Polgrain, and that
he was in constant dread of her coming to claim him.
At the advice of his friends he went to sea. It was of no avail.
He was still in constant terror of seeing Sarah. His shipmates used
to see him looking over his shoulder at something which they could
not see. When they were lying in their hammocks they were aware
of something very eerie and horrible close beside them. This state
of things continued until they were once again off the Cornish
coast, and a storm arose.
Yorkshire Jack was standing on the deck talking to one of his
shipmates. Suddenly his face blanched and he pointed in terror at
the sea. His shipmate looked in the direction he indicated and saw
the tall, luminous figure of a woman in black gliding over the foam-
crested waves. She drew momentarily nearer and nearer to the ship.
All the crew were now on the deck. They stood gazing at the
apparition, too appalled to say a word or utter a sound.
Yorkshire Jack gave a fearful cry. “It’s Sarah!” he screamed.
“She’s coming for me. Drive her away. For mercy’s sake keep her
from me.” He threw out his arms to ward her off, staggered, and
fell heavily on the deck.
For some minutes none of the crew moved. They were far too
frightened. When they summoned up the courage to examine Jack,
they found that he was dead. Sarah Polgrain had claimed him.1
1Popular Romances o f the West o f England, by R. Hunt.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
to keep to his bed. In his delirium he kept appealing to the spirit
with the golden hair and blue eyes to come to him and love him.
Before he had quite recovered from his illness he rose from his
bed one cold, misty night and stole quietly out of the house. He was
found in the morning at the Fell, lying on the ground in front of the
haunted boulder, dead, with a look of the most frightful horror on
his face.
POSSESSION, OBSESSION AND
POLTERGEISTS
PO SSESSIO N
D u r i n g a railway journey from New York to Buffalo, where I was
dated to give a talk in the winter of 1934, I met the Rev. Peter
Power, with whom I chatted. He had travelled much and had led
an eventful life before he became a priest. One of the strangest
stories that he told me was the following:
His kinsman, the Rev. Michael Power, was sitting alone one
evening, about the middle of the last century, in the parlour of his
little house in a remote district in the south-west of Ireland. He was
very tired. He had visited many of his parishioners, some of whom
had been more than usually tiresome.
He was deeply engrossed in a book, when there was a loud knock
at the front door. A gruff voice asked if he was at home. He had
forgotten to instruct Mrs. Murphy, his housekeeper, to tell anyone
who called that he was out. Wondering who the caller could be, and
hoping that it was not anyone whom he particularly did not want
to see, he put his book aside, and was standing with his back to the
grate when the door opened and a tall man in a dark suit stepped
into the room.
“I am sorry to disturb you at this hour,” the stranger said, “but
the matter that has brought me here is very important. My name
is Randle Beecham.”1
Father Michael scanned the stranger closely and decided that
there was something queer about him, an element of a disturbing
and unusual nature. He was seemingly of middle age with dark
hair streaked with grey, and strongly marked features. There was
a look in the deep-set brown eyes that showed the mind was in a
harassed, strained state. Father Michael bade him sit down and
explain the purpose of his visit.
“I hardly know how to begin,” Beecham said. “What I
have to say is so very peculiar. You believe in obsession, don’t
you?”
“Why, yes,” Father Michael replied. “I most certainly do
believe in obsession and possession. Is it about obsession you want
to talk?”
Beecham nodded. “Yes, but before I begin my story let me say
a few words regarding my home and family. I’m a widower, with
1All names mentioned in this story are fictitious.
!35
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
one child, Elise, a girl of seventeen, who will be leaving school at
the end of next July. She is spending her Christmas holidays with
me. Eighteen months ago I lost my wife. We had had a very happy
married life and were devoted to one another. You can imagine how
I suffered when she was taken from me. The blow was so overwhelm­
ing that for some long time I was quite unable to concentrate on
anything. I missed her terribly. Had it not been for Elise and my
work—I am an artist—I should have committed suicide.”
Father Michael looked shocked.
“And jeopardized your chance of going to Heaven?”
“I did not think or care about that,” Beecham said. “As time
went on I gradually became more reconciled to my lonely life.
Prior to my wife’s illness I had been a fairly regular attendant at
church, but after her death I ceased to go. My wife was so kind and
gentle and wholly good that I could not imagine how God could
allow her to suffer so much, or suffer at all. I lost all faith in
God.”
Father Michael sighed. “So many have,” he exclaimed sympa­
thetically. “And yet there must be some good reason for our having
to suffer so much in this life. It may well be that those who suffer
most will be compensated most. If we did not endure pain and
sorrow in this world we could not experience real happiness in the
life to come. How very boring everlasting happiness in this world
would be.”
“No more boring than everlasting happiness in Heaven, which
is what the Scriptures tell us the good people in this world will
experience. I much prefer boredom to suffering. I have had more
than my share of suffering.”
“Pain purges, my son,” Father Michael piously remarked, “and
there can be no Heaven if the soul is in any way tarnished. One
mustn’t question the justice of God. He knows what is necessary
and best for man.”
Beecham made no comment, but it was easy to see from his
expression that he was not in agreement with Father Michael.
“Let me continue my story,” he said after a brief silence. “Last
May I went for a walking tour in Brittany with my friend Charles
L’Estrange. One day we arrived at a village called Louville, and
enquired of the landlord of the only inn the way to Rennes. We
intended to spend the night there.
“He told us that there were two ways of getting to that place,
one rather longer than the other, but strongly advised us to take
P O S S E S S I O N , OB SE SS IO N AN D P O L T E R G E I S T S 137
the longer. We asked him why, and after a little hesitation he said
because the shorter way was through a wood, which bore a very
sinister reputation.
“Knowing how superstitious the Bretons, especially the peasants,
are, we asked him jokingly if the wood was haunted. But he
wouldn’t say yes or no. Inferring from his reticence that he believed
the wood was haunted, we set off gaily, fully resolved, just for the
fun of it, to take the shorter route.
“By the time we came to the wood it was getting dusk. The
wood, which stretched far away on either side of us, looked sombre
and forbidding with its dense foliage and dark, weird shadows.
After deliberating for a while whether it would not be advisable to
retrace our steps and go by the longer route after all, we finally
entered the wood.
“The sepulchral stillness was every now and then broken by
the flutter of a leaf, the creaking and crunching of undergrowth
beneath the tread of some four-footed prowler of the night, the
rustling of foliage by birds, scared at our approach, and the dismal
hooting of an owl. The path was so full of ruts, and overgrown in
places with brambles and rank vegetation, that we couldn’t proceed
fast for fear of stumbling.
“After feeling our way with difficulty for nearly an hour we were
startled to see, a little distance ahead of us, a tall figure in gleaming
white. We at once thought of the warning which the landlord of the
inn had given us about the wood, and came to an abrupt halt.
Ashamed at our cowardice we soon, however, pushed on, and were
relieved and amused to find that what we had taken for a ghost was
only a tree. Standing in the centre of a clearing, its white, bare
trunk presented a singularly blasted appearance.
“We were both so tired with our long and arduous tramp that
we decided to camp out in the clearing. The tree had a curious
fascination for me, and I proposed sleeping under its widespreading
branches, one of which resembled a long bony arm with a great
hand poised, as if in the act of clutching hold of someone.
“ ‘You sleep under the tree if you like,’ L’Estrange said, ‘but I
won’t. To me there is something horribly evil about it.’
“I laughed at him and told him not to be so silly, but I couldn’t
make him change his mind, and it ended in my making my bed
under the tree, while he lay out in the open.
“I shall never forget that night. I had a succession of horrible
nightmares. No sooner did I awake in a cold sweat of terror from
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
one nightmare than I fell asleep, and had an even worse one. I was
only too thankful when morning came.
“On rising from the ground I was distinctly conscious of a great
change in me. I was not the same man. Thoughts that had hitherto
been foreign to my nature surged through me. L’Estrange was
shocked at my conversation, at the terms I used and the views I
expressed. And he was by no means narrow-minded. He attributed
the difference in me to the tree, and I have strong grounds for
believing that he was right.
“From what we subsequently learned, Father, the tree bore a
very evil reputation. More than one person had been found dead
hanging from one of its branches, and several mysterious murders
had taken place in close proximity to it.
“The change in me was not for that one night only, it was a
durable change, entailing a process of general demoralization. I am
afraid of myself, Father, fearful of the harm I may do to my
daughter, whom I love so much. I don’t fancy that I’m possessed. I
know I am possessed, obsessed and possessed by the beastly spirit
that was attached to that tree.”
“I wonder!” Father Michael exclaimed. “You don’t think it is
just your imagination, do you? It seems so utterly fantastic.”
Beecham shook his head. “I expected that you might say some­
thing like that, but I assure you that it is not my imagination. I am
positively certain that an evil spirit has got hold of me, and I dread
the consequences, unless you or someone else will rid me of it.”
Beecham spoke with such heartfelt emotion, and there was such
an appealing expression in his eyes, that Father Michael was greatly
moved. The more he studied Beecham the more puzzled he be­
came. He could not make up his mind if the man was mad.
After much deliberation he said, “If it will comfort you and
ease your mind, I will try and rid you of the spirit which you believe
is influencing you so much.”
When he spoke about the exorcism taking place at his church,
Beecham objected. He said that he was particularly anxious for the
ceremony to be carried out in his own house. Father Michael
protested, but in the end gave way, realizing the probability of
Beecham having some peculiar reason for such a request.
“I must warn you, however,” he added, “that there may be
some danger in performing the act in a private dwelling-place.”
“I am prepared to risk that,” Beecham exclaimed. “I’m not
afraid.”
P O S S E S S I O N , O B S E S S IO N A N D P O L T E R G E I S T S 139
“The danger may not be so great for you,” Father Michael
said, “as for someone else. Do you remember in the eighth chapter
of St. Matthew how the devils, when cast out of the two men by
Our Lord, went into a herd of swine? Well, in cases of exorcism
it is extremely important that no third person should be present
during the ceremony. Will you promise that you will take every
precaution to ensure our being quite alone in your house?”
Beecham promised. “There will only be myself in the house,”
he said. “I will arrange for my daughter and housekeeper to be
out for the night.”
They fixed a day and hour, and Beecham went away greatly
relieved.
The night chosen for the occasion proved to be close and sultry.
Ominous clouds hung low in the sky, and far-off rumblings were
every now and then heard. True to his word Beecham was alone in
the house, momentarily expecting the arrival of Father Michael.
Elise was spending the evening with friends, and Mrs. Chandler,
the housekeeper, had gone to her daughter-in-law’s home in a
neighbouring village.
The house in which Beecham lived was very suitable for the
occasion. It stood alone on the fringe of the village, separated from
the nearest house by a stream and a quarry. Facing it, on the far
side of the road, was a spinney, consisting mostly of fir trees.
Beecham glanced impatiently at the clock. He hated unpunctu­
ality. Father Michael was already five minutes late. Beecham was
pacing up and down the floor in a state of extreme irritability when
the garden gate clicked, footsteps came hurriedly up the path, and
there was a knock on the front door. It was the priest, red in the
face from hurrying on such a warm night, and much out of breath.
“I am sorry that I am late,” he panted, “but I had a visitor
who would stay talking.”
A room in the rear of the house had been prepared for the
ceremony. Elise and Mrs. Chandler were led to believe that it was
merely for a church service.
Father Michael, endeavouring to overcome the feeling of fear
that gripped him when he and Beecham were together in the room,
the only human beings in the house, solemnly began the rites, which
the Roman Catholic Church had ordained for the occasion.
Beecham, standing before him, was ghastly pale, the tightening
of his lips and heaving of his breast evincing the intense emotional
struggle that was taking place within him. From outside there came
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
at intervals the rumbling of distant thunder, and the whining and
yelping of a dog.
As he proceeded Father Michael was conscious of a feeling of
expectancy in the atmosphere of the room, of a tensing and sense
of extraordinary concentration, suggestive of the near advent of
some supernatural occurrence. An accompanying change was
visible in Beecham. The muscles in his face twitched convulsively,
the heavings of his breast grew more and more violent, his eyes
gleamed, and his expression became so wholly evil and menacing
that Father Michael recoiled in horror.
Striving to remain calm, he sprinkled Beecham with holy water,
pronouncing as he did so sacramental words and adjuring the evil
spirit, which he knew was possessing Beecham, in the name of the
Holy Trinity to come out of the man and leave the house and
grounds. As he uttered the words a shadowy form slowly emerged
from Beecham. Father Michael could never have believed that
even in Hell there was anything so appallingly foul and frightful.
Immeasurably shocked he watched it, as it passed swiftly and
noiselessly across the floor and through the doorway, out into the
garden, where it vanished. Beecham, who did not see it, sank pale
and exhausted into a chair. Father Michael remained with him
until he had recovered, and then went home.
Beecham left the neighbourhood a few weeks after the exorcism,
and returned to Dublin, his native city. He married again, was very
happy and ever grateful to Father Michael for having so successfully
exorcized the evil spirit that had possessed him.
PER K ES T H E OBSESSED
O n e of the strangest cases of intercourse with dangerous evil spirits
and obsession by them is related in a letter sent to the Bishop of
Gloucester by the Rev. Arthur Bedford, who was Vicar of Temple
Parish, Bristol, at the beginning of the 18th century.1
Mr. Bedford said that while he was curate to Dr. Read, Rector
of St. Nicholas in the city of Bristol, he became acquainted with
Thomas Perkes, a steady, studious young man, who lived with his
father at Mangotsfield, Gloucestershire. Perkes told him that he had
recently been studying Cornelia Agrippa’s Fourth Book of Occult
Philosophy, in which there was a formula for raising spirits.
1The Bristol Times and M irror, May 26, 1866.
P O S S E S S I O N , O B S E S S IO N A N D P O L T E R G E I S T S 141
He said that out of curiosity he went one night to the crossroads
about one and a quarter miles from Frenchay, and in obedience to
the instructions in the formula made a circle on the ground with
consecrated chalk. When he had done this, he stood in the centre
of the circle with a lighted lantern on one side of him and a lighted
consecrated candle on the other side. He then repeated several in­
cantations from the formula and invoked any spirits that might be
present to manifest.
Nothing happened for some minutes, and then suddenly a
number of tiny, pretty girls appeared and danced around the circle.
He said that he was frightened until he remembered that no harm
would befall him so long as he remained within the circle. In
response to his question as to whether there was a Heaven and a
Hell, one of the spirits said that both these places actually existed.
He asked her what Hell was like. She said that it was a very
dreadful place, full of horrible spirits, and begged him never to
refer to it again. She told him that the class of spirits to which she
and her companions belonged had its headquarters in the air; that
there was a supreme chief or ruler, who had a permanent court and
counsellors; and that there were three Orders, each of which had
specific functions. Spirits of the First Order were transmitters of
messages to and from the spirits functioning on the earth. Spirits
belonging to the Second Order were bearers of those messages to
and from the earth. Spirits of the Third Order functioned on the
earth, according to the directions that they received from the
supreme chief.
Perkes said that at his request the little spirits sang to him from
behind a bush. Their voices were curiously shrill and resembled the
voices of old women. When they had finished singing they emerged
from behind the bush, and after conversing for a short time with
Perkes they abruptly vanished.
Mr. Bedford said he told Perkes that he thought he had done
very wrong in invoking the spirits, as it was contrary to the teaching
in the Bible. Perkes disagreed, and said the spirits that he had in­
voked were perfectly harmless, and that he intended going to the
crossroads again to try and obtain a familiar spirit that would come
when he wanted it and always do his bidding. He wanted Mr.
Bedford and a Mr. Bailey to accompany him to the crossroads and
witness his invocation, but they both declined.
Mr. Bedford did not see him again for several months, and when
he next encountered him he looked ill and in great trouble. He told
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
Mr. Bedford that he had gone to the crossroads again one night,
taking with him the various things that were mentioned in Agrippa’s
book for invoking a familiar spirit. After he had made a circle on
the ground he invoked any spirit present to appear.
The minutes passed without anything happening, and he was
thinking of going home, when a strange figure, of a vague, indefi­
nite form, suddenly appeared and informed him that its name was
Malachi, and that it was his familiar spirit. It bade Perkes enter its
name on the first page of a little book that was among the things
which Perkes had been instructed to bring with him. It also en­
joined him to inscribe in the book the names of all the spirits that
would appear that night and on subsequent occasions, and told
him that whenever he wished it to come to him, he had only to
open the book at the page on which its name was entered.
Soon after Malachi had given him these instructions other
spirits appeared; some of them resembled savage beasts of prey, and
others things that he had seen in nightmares. They hissed and made
horrible grimaces at him, and had he not been well within the con­
secrated circle they would undoubtedly have attacked him. They
kept moving round and round the circle until daybreak, when they
all vanished.
Perkes said that he had never felt well after that night at the
crossroads, and that he constantly had a feeling that evil spirits
were close to him, although he could not see them, and had never
made any compact with them. He expressed great repentance for
having invoked spirits.
Mr. Bedford bade him pray earnestly for deliverance from
satanic influences and advised him to see a doctor without delay.
His advice, however, came too late. Perkes died within a few
weeks. His death was believed to have been due to the fright he
endured the night he invoked Malachi. He was only twenty-one
years of age.
The book by means of which Perkes claimed he had invoked
spirits passed into the possession of Mr. William Llewellin, who was
present at his funeral. What subsequently became of the book is not
recorded.
One day in June, 1760, Mr. Joseph Beck and a friend, who had
heard extraordinary rumours about spirit-raising in the past by this
man named Perkes, paid a visit to the crossroads where the invoca­
tions were alleged to have taken place. There they found an old
man, a native of Frenchay, repairing a stone wall. The old man told
P O S S E S S I O N , OB S E S S IO N AN D P O L T E R G E I S T S 143
them that his name was Brimble, and that he remembered hearing
about Perkes in his youth.
He said he knew several men who were able to do wonderful
things through having invoked spirits at those particular crossroads.
A man named Goal was one of them. He said he went one evening
to a public house near Frenchay. Coal and several other men were
in the taproom. Coal told them that if they would sit quite still and
not move a limb, he would give them a convincing proof of his
magical powers. They laughed and were sceptical, but promised to
keep very quiet.
Coal then stood in a corner of the room with his back towards
all the company. He took something out of one of his pockets, and
immediately afterwards they saw by the light of the candles in the
room a tree, about three feet in height, rise from the centre of the
floor. Presently two little men in short coats and red caps appeared.
They began to cut down the tree with great skill and celerity.
As soon as the tree had been felled, and the little men had
gathered up the chips that were strewn about the floor, men, tree
and chips vanished simultaneously. Brimble told Mr. Beck and his
companion that he and everyone who had witnessed the extra­
ordinary exhibition were convinced that it was supernatural, and
that Coal was no trickster but a genuine magician.
Mr. Beck enquired if there had been any invocations at the
crossroads recently. Brimble said that he was not aware there had
been any within the last ten years. The crossroads, he added, were
so horribly haunted by evil spirits that no one ventured to pass them
alone after nightfall. He told them that he was going home very
shortly, and advised them not to linger there after he had gone, as
it would soon be getting dusk. They took his advice and went.
R ID E R S F R O M HELL
T h e following account of a strange Fox Hunter is taken from
Letters by the late Lord Lyttelton, Vol. I., p. 141, London, 1787.
The members of a well-known hunting club were engaged in a
chase one day, when a stranger ofsingularly aristocratic appearance
joined them. No one knew him, or had any idea whence he came;
and, strange to say, no one enquired. He was well mounted and
rode with a degree of courage and daring that astonished everyone.
His horse was amazingly powerful; nothing stopped it. It left the
144 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
huntsmen far behind. He swore that it came from Hell and that its
rider was the Devil.
When the chase was over, the members of the hunt club invited
the stranger to dinner. He accepted the invitation and surprised
his hosts as much by his eloquence, knowledge and manners as he
had done by his horsemanship. He was an orator, poet, painter,
musician, lawyer, and a divine; in short he was everything, and the
magic of his conversation kept the hunters awake and enthralled
long after their accustomary bed-hour. At length, however, wearied
nature could be charmed no more, and the hunters began to steal
away by degrees to their repose.
The stranger manifested great uneasiness when he observed the
company diminish, and exerted himself to the utmost to maintain
the interest of his depleted audience. He succeeded, but only for a
short time.
Soon after everyone had retired to rest the household was
alarmed by the most terrible shrieks. There was silence for a time,
and then the shrieking was renewed, and was even more dreadful
than previously. Horrible groans of despair succeeded the shrieks,
and were followed by bloodcurdling yells of pain and terror.
The listeners, hunters and domestics, were appalled. The more
courageous of them went in a body to the stranger’s room, from
which the sounds proceeded, and knocked loudly at his door. He
declared angrily that he had heard no noise and told them not to
disturb him.
They had hardly returned to their respective rooms when there
was a renewal of the yells, shrieks and groans, which seemed to issue
from the throats of a score or more of damned, tortured souls. The
listeners followed the sounds and traced them without a shadow of
doubt to the stranger’s room, the door of which they burst open.
They found the stranger upon his knees on the bed in the act of
scourging himself with the most relentless severity, his body stream­
ing with blood. On their seizing his hand to arrest the strokes, he
begged them to leave him, assuring them that the cause of the
disturbance was over, and that in the morning he would explain
the reason of the terrible cries that they had heard and the revolting
sight that they had seen. After he had pleaded with them for some
time they left him and retired to bed.
In the morning some of the hunters went to the stranger’s room.
He was not there. On examining his bed they found it soaked with
blood. One of the club grooms told them that as soon as it was light
P O S S E S S I O N , OB SE SS IO N A ND P O L T E R G E I S T S I 4 5
the strange gentleman came to the stables, booted and spurred, and
wanted his horse to be saddled at once. Directly this was done he
vaulted into the saddle and rode out of the yard at full speed.
Servants were at once despatched into every part of the county, but
not a trace of the strange hunter could be found. He had not been
seen by anyone, and his identity was never discovered.
Robert Hunt, a friend of my father, used to relate a story,1 the
truth of which he vouched for, about a phantom horsewoman, who
haunted a district in the south-west of Ireland.
John Burke, a relative of Robert Hunt, was out with the Blank-
town hounds one day when he heard a cry for help. He rode at
once in the direction of the cry and found a small boy trying to
extricate a sheep, which had got entangled in a bush. Burke, who
was the kindest fellow in the world, dismounted and quickly liber­
ated the silly animal. By the time he had done this and remounted,
he discovered to his chagrin that the entire field had disappeared.
He rode in the direction that he fancied they had taken, and after
a while realized that he had lost his way.
He was debating what to do when he saw a woman, mounted
on a very glossy black horse, riding a little way ahead of him. She
wore a green riding costume and a broad-brimmed hat with a long
drooping feather. Wondering why she was wearing such a queer
habit, and who on earth she was—he had not seen her at the meet—
Burke tried to overtake her, but no matter how fast he rode the
distance between the lady and himself always remained the same,
yet without any apparent increase in her speed.
He was strangely attracted by her. She had a slender, graceful
figure and sat her horse marvellously well. He could not see her face,
but he had the impression that it was beautiful. Her horse moved
with a curious gliding motion. Its hoofs made no noise. Burke
thought it must be due to the softness of the soil after the recent
heavy rain.
On and on the lady rode, with Burke always at the same distance
behind her. The land grew more and more barren and desolate.
Large grey boulders strewed the ground on either side of the narrow
track along which they were careering. Here and there were the
gnarled, fantastically fashioned trunks of dead and scanty-leafed
trees. The salty tang of the sea was in the air.
Burke saw to his horror that the lady in front of him was rapidly
approaching a cliff, far below which stretched the sea, glittering
1All names in this story are fictitious, by request.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
I46
brightly in the moonbeams. He shouted a warning to the lady but
she made no apparent attempt to check her speed and rode recklessly
on. His horse, as if magnetized, tore after her.
When close to the brink of the cliff she turned round and for
the first time disclosed her face. It was indescribably lovely and
wicked. Smiling archly at Burke she beckoned to him to follow her,
and disappeared over the cliff. Finding it impossible to curb his
horse, Burke uttered a fervent prayer and threw himself from the
saddle. He fell heavily and lost consciousness.
When he recovered he staggered to his feet, badly shaken but
not injured, and looked over the cliff. The moonlight revealed his
horse lying dead on the jagged, naked rocks. There was no sign
anywhere of the lovely, wicked lady or her horse.
How he got home Burke never knew. He had not lived long
enough in the Blanktown hunt country to hear the story of the
Phantom Lady of Death.
About the middle of the 18th century a certain James Fennell
bought an estate in the Blanktown hunt country. He spent much
of his time abroad, and on one occasion came home with a beautiful
foreign lady. He said that she was his wife, but it was generally
believed that she was his mistress. He was known to have had quite
a number of mistresses. She was an excellent horsewoman and was
often seen, mounted on a splendid black horse, riding in the vicinity
of the Fennell estate. Violent quarrels were reported to take place
frequently between Fennell and the lady, and when she mysteriously
disappeared rumours of foul play were circulated.
A year after her disappearance Fennell and his horse were
found one day lying on the sea-shore at the foot of the high cliff
bordering the beach, with their necks broken. It was surmised that
the horse had taken fright at something and, getting out of control,
had leaped over the cliff.
After Fennell’s death a phantom rider, believed to be the ghost
of his foreign mistress, was seen from time to time careering over
the Blanktown hunt country. Its appearance always presaged a
tragedy. After Burke’s miraculous escape, which, like a good
Catholic, he attributed to his prayer, the Phantom Lady of Death
was never seen again.
P O S S E S S I O N , OBS E S S IO N A ND P O L T E R G E I S T S 147
PO SSESSIO N AND P O L T E R G E IS T S
E d i n b u r g h and its environments would seem to have had rather
more than their share of reputed hauntings, for I am often reading
and hearing of ghostly happenings in and around the ancient
Scottish capital.
Baxter relates a case of unusual dual-hauntings that occurred
near Edinburgh during his lifetime.1 He says that there were living
within four miles of Edinburgh an aged minister and his son, who
occupied different houses in the same locality. Both houses were
troubled simultaneously and in the same manner. The inmates of
the houses used to hear sounds, as if all the locks, doors and lids of
chests and boxes had been burst open. Their clothes, which had
been locked in trunks and wardrobes, were found scattered about
the floor in the morning. On one occasion they found their best
linen had been taken out of cupboards and spread over tables, on
which glasses, filled with wine from the cellar of each house, were
set. There was rumbling and knocking heard during the night.
A servant-maid in one of the houses said that if she was prevented
from sleeping again by noises in her room she would brain the
spirit who disturbed her. She took a heavy weight to her room for
that purpose, and when she heard the ghostly knocking and rumb­
ling, she threw the weight in the direction of the sounds. It vanished
and was never found. Mr. Baxter learned about these happenings
from the minister himself, but he does not say whether the minister
and his son left their abodes in consequence of the disturbances.
Mr. Baxter in the same book relates a case of possession in
Scotland. It was told him by the Duke of Lauderdale. In the town
of Duns there was living, during the boyhood of the Duke, a poor
woman, who was believed to be possessed by a spirit. Mr. John
Weems, minister of Duns, visited her several times, and on one
occasion, when he was accompanied by the Duke and several other
people, he made a remark to the Duke in Latin, whereupon the
woman spoke in Latin. As they all knew her to be a poor, ignorant
person, they came away convinced that the rumours about her
being possessed by a spirit were true, and that the voice which they
had heard coming from her was not her own voice, but that of the
possessing spirit.
1Newsfrom the Invisible W orld, by T. Otway.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
Another case of ghostly disturbances of a very energetic kind
took place near Haddington.1 A girl named Isabel Heriot was
maid of all work to the clergyman of a village within a few miles
of Haddington. “She was of a low stature, small and slender, with
a very dark complexion. Her head was somewhat awry upon her
neck.” She was very droll and fond of playing tricks and making
fun of people.
The clergyman took a dislike to her and gave her notice to leave
his house. Soon after she left she was taken very ill, her face became
darker than ever, and she died in great pain. Two or three nights
after her burial, Isabel Murray, the girl who took her place at the
parsonage, saw her ghost, clad in a winding-sheet, walk from the
village church to the parsonage. A few nights afterwards stones
were flung at the parsonage; some passed over the roof, others
came in through doors and windows. They fell softly and did no
harm.
One night, however, just as the clergyman was entering the
house, a large stone was flung at him. It narrowly missed him and
struck a door with great force, making a dent in it. Isabel Murray
was hit by several stones, and a groom, who was tending to the
horses, was gripped by the heel so hard that he screamed. Stones
and clods and lighted coals flew about, and even an old horse-comb,
long since lost, was constantly whirling around the parsonage house
and grounds.
Isabel Murray had another encounter with the ghost. She said
that as she was returning home from church on a Sunday, she saw
the ghost of Isabel Heriot. “Her face was black like the mouten
soot, the very colour which it had been when she died.” She was
carrying a lot of stones in her apron. She threw them down when
Isabel Murray approached her and asked her what she was doing.
The ghost replied: “I come because I wronged my master when
I was his servant. For it was I who stole his watch, which I hid
under the hearthstone in the kitchen. When I left the parsonage I
took it to the Canongate and tried to sell it to a French woman.
In response to her question as to where I obtained it, I told her
that I had found it between Leith and Edinburgh.”
The ghost of Isabel Heriot also said that when she was riding
home late one night from marketing, her horse stumbled near the
Head of Fanside Brae, and upon her crying out, “The Devil raise
thee,” an evil spirit appeared and threatened to throw her into a
1 The Invisible W orld, by Prof. George Sinclair.
P O S S E S S I O N , O B S E S S IO N AN D P O L T E R G E I S T S 149
pit by the side of the road if she did not kill her master, the clergy­
man. Isabel promised to kill him.
She met the evil spirit again at Elfiston Mill, near Ormiston,
and later on at Knockhills. A man named Thomas Anderson, who
was a churchgoer, was with her, and the evil spirit told her to kill
him. She refused, and the evil spirit threw a sack of corn that was
on the back of her horse onto the ground, and she had to dismount
to get it. She confessed that she had often cheated her master out
of money, and said that the stones she had flung, and which had hit
Isabel Murray, had gone astray; she had intended that they should
strike the clergyman, who had once flung her out of the house and
into a pit. The ghost made such dreadful grimaces and looked so
indescribably evil that Isabel Murray was terrified and ran home.
The ghost of Isabel Heriot never appeared again, and no more
supernatural disturbances occurred at the parsonage.
DANGEROUS C O N T IN E N T A L GHOSTS
I
T H E G IR L IN T H E C O F F IN
O n e Saturday evening in February, 1851, a carriage drove up to
the door of a carpenter’s shop in the neighbourhood of the rue
Saint-Honore.1A gentleman in a black coat, his hat drawn low over
his forehead, entered the shop and enquired for the owner. The
owner appeared and asked what service he could render. The
gentleman told him that he required a workman who could execute
repairs that very evening.
The owner of the shop acquiesced and entrusted the job to a
young carpenter. Armed with the tools that he was told would be
necessary, the young carpenter entered the strange gentleman’s
carriage, and was driven up the Champs-Elysees Avenue towards
the Place de l’Etoile.
The carriage stopped a little way beyond the Place de l’Etoile,
and the gentleman informed the young man that it would be
necessary to bandage his eyes, as the job for which he was needed
had to be executed in the greatest secrecy. The young man would
not consent at first, but eventually agreed and allowed the gentle­
man to bandage his eyes.
The carriage drove on and very shortly stopped again. The
young man was lifted out of the carriage by two masked men, who
carried him into a building and down a number of stone steps. The
bandage was removed from his eyes, and he found himself in a
large cellar containing a pile of deal boards. The gentleman told
him to make a coffin out of the boards, and threatened to shoot
him if he refused.
After he had made the coffin he was led into an inner cellar,
and told that he must stay there until he was wanted. There was a
hole in one of the walls of the cellar, through which he could see a
water-butt, and he was straining his eyes in an endeavour to see
some other object that might aid him to identify the building when
he was summoned to the outer cellar. There to his astonishment he
saw a lovely young girl, who was on her knees with her hands
clasped in front of her.
“You fiends!” she exclaimed. “I know that you are going to
kill me, but I beg you to spare him.”
1Farley's Bristol Journal, February, 1851.
*53
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L G H O S T S 155
a chilly sensation when they passed by it. Children were much too
scared by the look of it and by the stories they had heard about the
haunting to linger in close proximity to it, and if a ball, thrown
carelessly by one of them, fell into any of the grounds of the house,
no one ever dared to venture in quest of it. People never occupied
the house for long, and more than one mysterious death was
rumoured to have taken place within its forbidding walls.
It was the cheapness of the house that tempted M. Divorne to
buy it. To acquire a commodious house and large grounds freehold,
and within about fifty miles of Paris, for a quarter the price he had
paid for the house in which he was living, was wonderful.
It was a thousand pities Madame Divorne was not altogether
satisfied. She complained that the Grey House would not be easy
to run with only two servants, a cook and a housemaid; there were
so many stairs and so few modern conveniences. Moreover there
was something in the atmosphere of the house that she did not like.
She could not very easily describe the something, but it depressed
her and imparted a feeling almost of dread.
M. Divorne only laughed and declared that it was just her
fancy, that she would get over it when the house has been touched
up a bit and made to look a little more cheerful. It merely needed
new wallpapers and a few roaring fires to make it very cosy.
“I like the house,” he told her. “There is plenty of space, and
that will be a treat after having been cooped up for so long in a
small town villa. The fresh country air will do us all the world of
good. There will be no need to buy fruit or vegetables. We shall be
able to grow all we want, and if we have more than we need for
ourselves we can sell it. Fowls, too! We can have new-laid eggs
every day.”
He tried very hard to infect Madame Divorne and his children
with his enthusiasm for the Grey House. There were six children.
Henri the eldest was an accountant; Louise, a good-looking
brunette, was a typist and stenographer; Pierre, who was just
eighteen years of age, was a clerk in a solicitor’s office; Marie, the
second girl, was a manicurist; Henriette and Maxime were still at
school.
They were all quite ignorant of the ill reputation which the Grey
House bore in the locality, and the agent, through whose medium
M. Divorne bought the property, refrained very discreetly from
alluding to it.
The family did not move into the Grey House until the papering
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
I 5 6
of the walls and painting of the doors and windows was finished,
and everything was in readiness for the newcomers. Monsieur and
Madame Divorne were the first to arrive; the rest of the family were
unable to come till later in the day.
The behaviour of the dogs, Raoul and Muffin, struck Madame
Divorne as odd. They evinced great reluctance to enter the grounds
and still greater reluctance to enter the house. Usually on going to
a place that they had not been to before, they would wander around
and do a little investigation, but instead of doing this, when they
entered the Grey House they kept close to Madame Divorne and
seemed very much afraid. Their behaviour puzzled Madame
Divorne, and she wondered if they sensed the something unpleasant
in the house and grounds which she sensed. It was not until the
dogs had been in the building for some minutes that they appeared
to be a little more at ease.
M. Divorne was right when he described the Grey House as
commodious; it was in the sense of being roomy, for the hall was
spacious, the staircase wide, and most of the rooms were large, with
high ceilings and wide chimneys. But even with the new paint and
paper there was still a curious gloom about the interior of the
building. Madame Divorne felt it. M. Divorne did not appear to
notice it.
Except for the dogs being very restless during the day and
whining and growling at night, nothing unusual or in any way
alarming occurred until the Divornes had been in the house for
several weeks.
It was one night, about the middle of September, that Louise
awoke to hear the dogs barking and then sounds as if something
was being rolled or pushed across the floor of the landing over her
head. Wondering what it could be, she sat up in bed and listened.
Presently there was a queer bumping sound, followed by another,
and then another, as if some heavy object, like a barrel, was coming
down the stairs. She got up, switched on the light and opened the
door.
The staircase was at the far end of the landing but the moon­
light, pouring through a window above it, enabled her to see it
tolerably clearly. The bumping reached the landing on which she
stood, continued across it, and went on down the wide staircase
into the hall. A few moments later there was a loud crash, as if a
quantity of crockery had fallen or been thrown from a height on to
a stone floor. After that there was a deep and prolonged silence.
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L G H O S T S 157
Up to now Louise had been more curious than actually scared.
She had seen nothing, but there was something so eerie and
frightening in the silence that she sprang back to her room, locked
the door and scrambled into bed. She kept the light on until the
dawn had broken.
At breakfast she enquired if anyone had heard anything in the
night. Henriette said she had heard queer noises. Henriette’s and her
account of the alarming sounds were received with scepticism by all
the family, with the exception of Madame Divorne, who appeared
to be greatly concerned.
Two days later the cook and housemaid complained that there
was something wrong with the drains. They said that on their way
to bed the previous night they had been nearly suffocated by a vile
stink. It was on the back staircase, leading from the basement to
their quarters in the rear of the house.
M. Divorne was puzzled and sceptical. He told them that he
could not understand how the drains could be at fault, as before
buying the house he had had them thoroughly tested, and they had
been found to be in a very satisfactory condition.
What the maids said, however, was very shortly confirmed by
an experience that befell Henri. He was resting his elbows on the
window-sill of his bedroom early one evening, gazing at the moonlit
lawn and the white, glimmering road in the distance, when he fell
into a reverie, from which he was abruptly aroused and brought
sharply back to earth by the barking and growling of the dogs, and
a sensation of great coldness, which turned into one of loathing,
when his nostrils were assailed by an overpowering stench. It was
so dreadful that he quickly threw open the window and, in order
to rid himself of the stink, inhaled deep breaths of the cool night
air.
Hearing a strange noise behind him, he turned round and saw
a tall object move across the floor and disappear by the door. It
was too vague and shadowy for him to discern at all distinctly, but
he got the impression of something unpleasantly bizarre, and was
so terrified that he fled downstairs to the drawing-room, where the
rest of the family were gathered.
Into their astonished ears, as soon as he had recovered breath,
he poured a somewhat confused account of what had happened.
M. Divorne attributed it to his imagination but at the same time
showed symptoms of uneasiness. The next day something occurred
to augment that uneasiness in no small measure.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
He was sitting by the dining-room fire reading, when a cold
current of air made him shiver. Glancing round to see whence it
proceeded, he saw the door was wide open. Thinking it odd be­
cause he remembered shutting it, but supposing that he had not
latched it properly, or that someone had opened it without his
hearing him or her, he closed it carefully and resumed his reading.
He had, however, only been occupied thus for a few minutes when
he again felt a cold blast of air sweep past him, and turning he
perceived that the door was again wide open. He rose and was
about to go to the door to close it when he was aware of a foul
smell. It seemed to come from the doorway, and although he could
see nothing to account for it, he had the distinct feeling that some­
thing had entered the room and was standing looking at him. He
got the impression of a body in the last stages of putrefaction. Un­
able to stand the smell, he fled to the french window, tore it open,
and made an undignified, precipitate exit into the garden.
He was very badly scared, but not wanting to prejudice the
family still more against the house, he kept the incident to himself.
It was in the garden that the next happening of a disturbing nature
occurred.
Marie and Henriette were strolling about the lawn one fine
Sunday afternoon, when the twilight was gradually deepening and
a half moon was gleaming faintly in the darkening autumn sky.
Feeling someone was behind them, Marie looked hastily round but
saw nothing. They went on, and still fancied that someone was
following them. The feeling was so acute that they were obliged to
keep looking round, and each time the result was the same. No one
was visible.
They came to a junction of several paths. Close to it was an old
covered-in well, which had not been used for very many years. They
paused to look at it, for it had a strange fascination for them. While
they were gazing at it something, that they could not see, rushed
past them. A moment or two afterwards they heard a splash, as if
something very heavy had fallen into the well. They were so
frightened that they ran back to the house, and all the way to it
heard footsteps bounding along after them.
That night Marie woke and saw a shadowy funereal pall descend
from the ceiling on to the bed in which Henriette was sleeping. It
assumed the outlines of a coffin. She sat up in terror. The pall
vanished. Her scream roused Henriette, who asked if anything had
happened. Marie pretended that she had had a bad dream. Neither
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L GH OS T S I 5 9
of the girls went to sleep again; they lay awake talking until the
morning.
A week after this incident the cook and the housemaid gave
notice to leave. They said that they could not sleep at night because
of the alarming noises, and that they had had more than enough
of the abominable smells.
Madame Divorne could not get any maids to sleep in the house,
and had difficulty in obtaining two daily women, who could not be
persuaded to stay after it began to get dusk. As a result, Madame
Divorne, assisted by one of the girls, had to get the dinner. M.
Divorne still professed to be in love with the house, but there were
signs of increasing discontent among the other members of the
family.
One day, when the girls and Maxime were in one of the side
gardens, there was a curious noise seemingly behind a bush that
grew close to a wall. Both dogs growled and their hair bristled.
“Go seek, Raoul,” Maxime cried. “Go on, fetch ’em out. See
who’s there.”
Thus urged, Raoul, with obvious reluctance, pushed his way
into the bush, disappeared for a few seconds, and then rushed out
with his tail drooping, looking very badly scared.
Maxime went behind the bush and searched it well, but could
not discover anything to account for the dog’s behaviour. The next
day Raoul would not touch his food or leave his kennel. He stayed
there all curled up, and so obviously ill that M. Divorne had a vet
to see him. The vet frankly admitted that he did not quite know
what was the matter with Raoul. He thought that he may have had
a bad fright. He gave him some medicine, but it did not do Raoul
any good, and he died a day or two after.
Everyone in the house was upset, for the Divornes were great
animal-lovers, and they were all very fond of Raoul. Maxime was
certain that something in the bush, some hidden horror, was
responsible for Raoul’s death. A rough-haired fox terrier puppy was
bought to keep Muffin company.
For more than a week the Divornes enjoyed a respite from the
smells, but much anxiety was caused by the indisposition of
Henriette. The local doctor, who was called in, at first attributed
it to indigestion, then to gastric trouble, after that to megrim, and
finally to a combination of all three. His remedies were of no
avail.
Madame Divorne was sure that it was the atmosphere of the
i6o D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
house, which was bad for them all, and begged her husband to sell
or let the place. This he would not do.
“Henriette’s illness has nothing to do with the house,” he said.
“She would probably have been ill in Nantes, where we used to
live. She’s been working too hard. They give her too many lessons
at school. She needs a good long holiday and plenty of fresh air.
That will do her more good than any physic. We haven’t given this
house a proper trial yet. Wait another six months, and if anything
unpleasant occurs during that time, a repetition of those stinks, for
instance, I will do as you suggest and quit; though we shall never
find another so suitable a place, suitable in every way. Rooms,
space, gardens, situation, everything that we want.”
Madame Divorne sighed. She realized the hopelessness of
arguing with him. Never was there such a pig-headed, mulish man.
A more potent influence than any argument was, however, impend­
ing. M. Divorne was very much a person of habit and routine. He
awoke and got up always about the same time every day, and as
regularly had his meals and went for a constitutional. If the weather
was fine he spent a certain restricted time in the garden; if wet, he
stayed indoors and read—for the improvement of his mind, he told
the family. The finding of some of his literature, carefully hidden
away, created considerable amusement and some cynicism in the
finders.
His bedroom was somewhat isolated. It was the only room in a
short passage or corridor leading out of the first landing. He liked
it because the dormer window commanded an extensive view of one
of the lawns and the country beyond. It had a wide old-fashioned
chimney and a large cupboard, deep-set in the wall. There was a
gloom even on a bright, sunny day, but that M. Divorne professed
not to mind.
Not feeling too well one night during the last week of November,
he went to bed a trifle earlier than usual, and the weather being
stormy and bitterly cold he had a coal fire in his room. The elements
increased in violence as the night advanced. The wind howled and
whistled down the chimney and beat the snow and ivy leaves against
the window with a fury that threatened to break the glass.
M. Divorne lost no time in undressing and getting into bed. For
a long time he lay listening to the wind and the flaking sound of
ashes as they fell on to the hearth, and watching the grotesque
shadows cast on the ceiling by the flickering fire flames. Drowsiness
at last stealing over him, he relapsed into a deep, dreamless sleep.
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L GH OS TS 16 1
He woke with a wild shriek of the wind ringing in his ears, and
was conscious of a vile, nauseating smell. Raising himself up in bed
and opening his eyes, he received a terrible shock. Standing at the
foot of the bed, its horrible head thrust aggressively forward, was
a tall, nude, luminous figure. Its face was that of a corpse in an
advanced state of decomposition. The livid, scaly flesh seemed to be
falling from the bones; the rotting lips were wreathed in a leer that
revealed long, jagged, yellow teeth; only the pale, slanting eyes
were alive. They were fixed on M. Divorne with an expression of
malicious glee. A gruesome, leadenish blue light enveloped the
whole body.
The shock M. Divorne experienced, on beholding such an
appalling spectacle, was so great that he fainted, and it was not
for some time after he had recovered consciousness that he ventured
to open his eyes. The figure had vanished, the fire was out, and the
room was in darkness. Daylight seemed an age in coming. Seldom
had M. Divorne been so thankful as he was when a rap on the door
announced the arrival of his early cup of coffee.
He did not tell the family what he had seen. They guessed from
his face that he had had none too good a night, and their sus­
picions increased when he told them that he had come round to
their way of thinking, and considered it wisest after all to vacate
the house.
Fortunately for the Divornes the scramble for houses rendered
it easy to sell the Grey House, and they were lucky enough to find
new quarters almost at once. The move into other surroundings put
new life into Henriette, whose mysterious malady took a turn for
the better directly she left the Grey House.
Curious to learn something about the history of the Grey House,
Pierre made numerous enquiries and learned eventually that on
its site there had once been a very ancient mansion. Horrible deeds
were alleged to have taken place within its grim and sinister walls,
and for that reason not only the building itself but the ground on
which it stood was accursed. Misfortune overtook all who occupied it.
The De Morvelles, into whose hands the estate passed in the
17th century, met with nothing but trouble and disaster all the
time they owned it. They sold it to the Lantieres. During the
Lantieres’ occupation of the house a mysterious fire occurred one
night, and only the bare, blackened walls were left standing.
The Godeuils, who bought the estate from the Lantieres, had
the ruin of the old mansion cleared away, and a new house erected
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
l6s
on its site. The life of the new house was short. It was levelled to
the ground during the French Revolution. Its inmates, the dead
and living, were thrown into a well by the enemies of the Aristocrats.
A few years after the Revolution the Grey House was built. At first
it was a private residence, and then it became an inn, which
acquired a very evil reputation. After the death of the landlord
the Grey House once again became a private residence. Those who
owned it always appeared to be only too glad to get rid of it.
If what Pierre Divorne learned about the history of the Grey
House and about that of its predecessors was true, one can hardly
be surprised that the place was haunted. Accursed places exude
baleful influences and act as magnets to all kinds of evil spirits.
T H E MAN IN FLANNELS
T h e following story was told me when I was staying in Mont­
parnasse shortly before the 1914 War.1
Near the ancient city ofB----- in Western Europe there isa bridge
over a precipitous gorge. The bridge would seem to have a peculiar
attraction for suicides, some of whom travel many miles to take the
fatal plunge. Except at Easter and during the summer months, the
traffic over the bridge is not very great. The scenery on either side
is very beautiful. The heights are thickly clothed with a great variety
of trees, some of whose lateral branches protrude far over the edge
of the cliffs. At the foot of the rocks, and occupying nearly all the
intervening space, flows a deep, swift-flowing river, which at times
becomes a roaring torrent.
One feels when standing on the bridge and gazing into the
sombre depths a horrible fascination for the river; the dark, horrid,
swerving, shrieking water seems to rise slowly up, and with its cold,
baleful breath to suck one into its seething bosom. The desire to fall,
to plunge down, down, down into the rushing, foaming torrent,
surges through one’s mind. The lot of the toll-men who are on duty
at night is by no means enviable.
At the end of the last century one of the toll-men was a tall,
thin, red-haired, lantern-jawed individual named Lief Krass. He
was a strong Sabbatarian and regarded any kind of recreation on a
1The narrator, an artist, declared that it was founded on fact; that she had
been particularly requested not to divulge the real name of the chief character in
the story or the locality of the bridge.
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L G H O S T S 163
Sunday as a sin. One early autumn Sunday evening he was so over­
come at the sight of a man actually in white flannel trousers and
carrying a lawn tennis racket on Sunday that he forgot to ask him
to pay the usual toll money until he had reached the middle of the
bridge. “Hi, you!” he then shouted indignantly. “Come back,
you’ve not paid the toll money.”
The stranger stopped, turned slowly round, so that Krass could
see every line and feature in his face, and then without saying a
word he climbed over the railing at the side of the bridge and
dropped into the river.
Too horror-stricken to move or utter a sound, Krass saw him
go right down, turning over and over, his white face and clothes
standing out in ghastly contrast to the dark background, till he
struck the black, swirling inferno, when he was instantly whirled
out of sight. It was not until he had been swept away by the rushing
water that Krass fully realized what had happened.
“My God,” he said, “and I might have stopped him! It was
his clothes and the racket. That’s what happens when people won’t
keep the sabbath.”
He at once reported the tragedy to the police. A search was
made for the suicide’s body, but with no result. His identity was
never known.
The following Sunday evening Krass was on duty as usual in
the toll-house. The weather was cold and raw, a heavy mist hung
over the gorge. There had been but little traffic all day, and after
nightfall the bridge and the adjoining roads were absolutely de­
serted. Minute after minute passed, and Krass could hear nothing
but the creaking and groaning of iron girders and the distant
thunder of rushing water, the echoes of which sounded and re­
sounded through the whole length of the frightful chasm, and out
into the ponderous stillness of the foggy night air.
There had been a time when Krass, who was very unimaginative
and always well fortified with the scriptures, had not minded the
loneliness of his nocturnal vigils. Seated in his cosy little room, a
blazing fire in front of him and a jug of hot coffee on the hob, he
had laughed at the wind and rain, and all the uncanny sounds
accompanying them in the gorge. But now, with the vision of the
ghastly, white-faced, falling suicide still vivid in his memory, the
darkness and loneliness of the night scared him. He found himself
continually listening, why and for what he did not know.
Once he fancied he heard footsteps hurriedly approaching the
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
164
bridge. He sprang from his seat, opened the little window at which
he took his payments, apprehensively searched the gloom with his
eyes, and listened. He had been fooled. What he had heard were
not footsteps, only the flapping of some loose timber. He returned
to the fire, trembling.
Presently he heard a queer sound. He was on his feet again, his
ears strained. Badly frightened, he opened the window and peered
into the surrounding darkness. From the gorge rose a cry, shrill,
agonizing, awful, as of someone in deadly fear or pain. It seemed to
quiver for a moment in the air, and then went sobbing and wail­
ing down the mist-ridden gorge. It was an unearthly sound that
chilled the blood in Krass’s veins. He was closing the window when
something whirled past him. He shrank away from the window,
startled. The thing whirled by again, and he forced a laugh. It was
only a bird. He sank into his chair, shaking.
By and by he fell asleep and awoke with a violent start. A faint
glow of light dissipated the darkness outside the house, and threw
into relief patches of masonry, imparting to them a ghostly white­
ness. Krass was at first frightened, then he laughed. The whiteness
was due to the dawn. Nothing supernatural.
The air felt icy, colder than he ever remembered it in the early
autumn. He shivered and drew his coat tightly round him. Foot­
steps. In a moment all his faculties were keenly alert. Who could
it be at two o’clock in the morning? His nerves were anyhow. He
looked out of the window, fearful of what he might see.
Advancing towards him in the pale light of the dawn was a man
in white flannels, carrying a lawn tennis racket in one hand. When
he drew nearer to the bridge Krass recognized him. He was the
suicide, the man Krass had seen falling from the bridge. He walked
past the toll-house, just as he had done the night of the tragedy.
When he reached the middle of the bridge, he turned and looked
menacingly at Krass. He then climbed over the railing, looked
again at Krass, grinned and dropped into the yawning chasm.
Krass saw him turn head over heels as he fell, down and down, into
the foaming, roaring river. It was not until he disappeared that
Krass fully realized he was a phantom, and that what had just taken
place was a ghostly re-enaction of the tragedy which had occurred
on the previous Sunday.
Krass did not tell anyone except his wife and daughter about
the ghost, but he asked the local authorities to let him be on duty
during the day instead of at night. To this they reluctantly con-
D A N G E R O U S C O N T I N E N T A L G H O S T S 165
sented, and the following Sunday about noon found Krass seated
in his favourite chair in the toll-house. He behaved so queerly,
however, continually accusing people of wanting to throw them­
selves over the bridge, that he was dismissed from his post.
A few days later a labourer and his wife were crossing the bridge
on their way home when they heard someone running after them.
It was Krass.
“He’s after me! He’s after me!” Krass cried. “For mercy’s sake
stop him !”
“Stop him? Stop whom?” the labourer exclaimed.
“That man in flannels,” Krass said. “He gives me no peace.
Don’t let him catch me. Keep him off.” And with a fearful scream
he climbed over the railing and dropped into the river.
After his suicide the authorities found it very difficult to get
men to do night duty in the toll-houses. No one remained in them
for more than a few nights. They all declared that the bridge was
haunted not by one dreadful apparition but by several.
The toll-houses were finally abolished, but not the spectres, for
up to the time I heard this strange story rumours of ghostly
happenings on the bridge were in constant circulation.
DANGEROUS AM ERICAN GHOSTS
T E R R O R IN T H E FAR W EST
A c c o r d i n g to James Grant, Iceland is rich in legends and
traditional stories of ghostly phenomena. One of the most
remarkable of the stories is the following:
A lady of considerable means stated in her will that she wished
to be buried in a spot far from where she lived. The person who
inherited her property wilfully disregarded her request. He told
the undertaker to deposit her remains anywhere he chose. The
undertaker did as he was bidden, and the coffin was buried close
to the house in which the lady had died.1
After interring her remains the undertaker and his men returned
to the lady’s house, and were carousing there, when her ghost,
wrapped in a winding-sheet, suddenly appeared and shook its
clenched hand menacingly at them. Scared to death, they rushed
out of the house and never ventured to enter it again. A herdsman
who had been with them in the house was found the next day dead
in bed. A man named Thorold, who was a seer and an associate of
the person who inherited the lady’s estate, contacted the herdsman’s
ghost, and died from fright.
Poltergeist disturbances took place nightly in the house where
the lady had dwelt. Furniture and kitchen utensils were flung about
by invisible hands. Horrible figures pounced out on people from
cupboards and dark corners. A phantom, with a body resembling
a seal and the head of a long-dead human corpse, rose from the floor
of the kitchen and frightened the people who saw it to such an extent
that one of them died and another went mad. A boat mysteriously
overturned on the river near the lady’s house, and the three people
in it were drowned. Their ghosts, the herdsman’sghost and Thorold’s
ghost all haunted the lady’s house and the neighbouring village.
People fled from the locality in terror. A priest finally summoned
up the courage to visit the haunted house and the adjoining land
and exorcize the ghosts. The hauntings then ceased.
Hauntings quite as terrifying as those in Iceland have occurred
from time to time in and around a valley in the Indian territory of
Tishomingo in the United States. Fighting between invisible
antagonists is heard in the air over the valley before any grave
epidemic or serious trouble among the Indians.
1Vide Mysteries o f A ll Nations.
169
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
I^O
In May, 1892, John Willis, a United States marshal, was
belated in the valley one night. He had not heard that it was
haunted. He slept on a rock and was awakened by his horse stamp­
ing on the ground. He sprang up, thinking that the horse was scared
by coyotes. The valley was illuminated by the light of the full moon.
He saw nothing, but heard terrible noisesin the air—sounds ofblows,
cries of agony, pleadings for mercy, groans, and thuds of stricken
bodies. His horse was terrified, and he was too frightened to move.
He remained in one spot until the sounds ceased, when he at
once mounted and sped from the valley as fast as his horse could
carry him. The following day a serious epidemic broke out in
Tishomingo.
Ghostly happenings of a somewhat similar kind are said to occur
in the Canon of the Lost Souls in Colorado. There are few ravines
in the world that inspire one with greater awe. The sides of the
ravine are broken and scarred as if some demon, possessing titanic
power, had charged and struck them. According to a very old
tradition, a company of Spanish soldiers who entered the sombre
ravine were never seen again. They were generally supposed to
have been killed by the evil spirits that haunted the ravine. At
night-time their cries of terror and agony can still be heard above
the roaring of the river that rushes furiously through the gorge.
In the early nineties of the last century I visited Grater Lake in
Oregon, and camped out for several nights in the forest bordering
it. I was immeasurably impressed at the sight of the lake, and could
hardly credit that the vast expanse of placid green water, which
seemed to be so near to me, was more than a thousand feet below
the brink of the cliff on which I was standing. In those days few
tourists ever visited the lake, and it still bore a very eerie reputation.
Backwoodsmen who had lived for many years in the forest, and
Indians belonging to the Rogue River Reservation, told strange tales
of ghostly happenings in the regions that were in close proximity
to the lake. The Indians firmly believed that the lake was the abode
of evil spirits that tempted people to throw themselves over the cliffs.
One of these spirits was a female phantom, of far greater beauty
than the lovely Pocahontas, daughter of Powhatan, who rescued
Captain John Smith when her father was on the point of killing
him. If this beautiful spirit encountered a solitary young man in the
region of Crater Lake she smiled invitingly at him. Few youths
could look at her without succumbing to her charms. Her eyes
enthralled them. They made violent love to her, and directly they
D A N G E R O U S A M E R I C A N GH OS T S 171
kissed her lovely, enticing lips their doom was fixed. She recipro­
cated their passion for a time, and then led them to the lake and
told them to leap into it, enfolded in her caressing arms. This they
did without a protest, and their souls passed for ever into the keeping
of the diabolical spirits of Crater Lake.
Another of the ghosts said to haunt the neighbourhood of the
lake was a black stag. It magnetically attracted all men who saw
it and compelled them to chase it to the lake. On arriving there it
leaped into the distant water, and the men who had followed it
leaped after it, always to their death. The lake, I am told, is still
reputed to be haunted.
The Devil’s Pool, a basin 150 feet wide, worn in the rock of the
White Mountains, New Hampshire, was reputed to be haunted long
before a white man landed in America. The first time that white
men visited the White Mountains the Indians warned them not to
linger near the Devil’s Pool, and assured them that should they
dally there they would see phantoms of such horrible shapes that
they would either die from fright or become raving mad. Now the
White Mountains attract crowds of tourists every summer, but
notwithstanding their presence some of the terrifying spirits are
rumoured to hover around the pool and hills even yet.
Very weird and extraordinary tales are told of the Lone Rocks
in Monument Park, Colorado. These rocks are stone pillars or
columns of varying heights, crowned with wide, flat boulders that
are not unlike broad-brimmed bats. Seen in the moonlight the
grotesqueness of these pillars is liable to have a very scaring effect
on people who are at all imaginative.
Like some of the ancient tribes in Asia and Europe, the Red
Indians of America believed that every mountain, rock, river, tree
and cave harboured a spirit. They declared that the Lone Rock
Pillars emitted gruesome blue lights at night, and out of them
emerged fantastic figures that danced about in the moonlight and
took a fiendish delight in frightening any living creature that came
near them.
Two tourists, who visited the rocks about the beginning of the
present century, were making fun of their queer crowns when one
of the tourists felt a violent blow on his back. He turned quickly
round, but saw no one. That night he was taken suddenly ill and
died. The Indians and the old settlers in Colorado believed that
anyone who laughed at the Lone Rocks was sure to experience
grave misfortune within the next twenty-four hours.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
A H A U N T E D FA M ILY
I n t h e old Argosy1 of 1879 there is an account of a very harrowing
family haunting in Canada.
Miss Anne Ducane and her sister, Louise, were spending the
summer with their friends, the Whittakers, who lived on the out­
skirts of Montreal. The Whittaker family consisted of Major
Whittaker, his two sisters and their niece, Lucy, who was a very
pretty, smart young girl.
The Laurels, where the Whittakers lived, was a long, low,
rambling building. It was situated about fifty yards from the main
road to Montreal. Two large wooden gates led to a broad, winding
gravel drive, which was edged on each side with laurel bushes. In
front of the house was a wide, well-kept lawn, and in the rear an
exclusive garden, orchard and fields. The front door of the house
was made of oak. It was very old and weather-stained. On it were
marks which showed the place that was formerly occupied by a
large iron knocker. For some peculiar reason the knocker had been
removed. There was only now a wire-bell.
Major Whittaker, who had always been very lively and sociable,
had recently become very religious and taciturn.
One evening his niece and the Ducanes were about to go for a
walk, when he sternly forbade them to leave the house. He told
them that a bad storm was brewing. The sky was then quite clear,
but it soon darkened. The wind moaned and whistled round the old
house, and the rain beat against the windows. The storm became
more and more violent. Windows rattled, doors jarred, and the rain
came down in torrents. Very gradually the fury of the storm abated,
and calmness reigned once again.
The stillness was presently broken by the sound of a heavy
carriage coming along the drive at a furious rate. The three girls,
who wondered who could be coming to the house at so late an
hour—it was nearly ten o’clock—went to the front door and were
about to look out, when Major Whittaker dragged them back. He
shut the door and locked and bolted it. He had hardly done so when
the carriage stopped outside the house, and the next moment there
was a violent knocking, as if with an iron knocker.
Major Whittaker, who was greatly agitated, bade everyone in
1Edited by Mrs. Henry Wood.
D A N G E R O U S A M E R I C A N GH OS TS 173
the house kneel down in the hall, while he prayed to be delivered
from the evil spirits that haunted his family. By degrees the knocking
grew fainter and finally ceased. The three girls, who had been
terrified during the knocking, ran into the room in which they all
slept, and peered out of the window.
It no longer rained, and the drive and lawn were bathed in
moonlight. There was no sign of the phantom carriage. In the
morning Mr. Lefroy, a friend of Major Whittaker, came to the
house. On being told about the ghostly knocking he examined the
carriage drive and found traces of a heavy vehicle and hoof marks
in the gravel. He and the Major’s sisters strongly advised the
Ducanes to terminate their visit and leave the house as soon as
possible.
They arranged to go the following day and wanted to take Lucy
with them, but her aunts said: “She must stay. She is one of us and
must learn to endure the ghostly happenings in our family with the
same fortitude as we and our forbears have always endured them.”
That night Anne Ducane was awakened by her sister, who
pointed in terror at the door. It was opening very slowly, and the
two girls saw a tall hooded figure in long, flowing garments silently
enter the room with long monkish strides. When it was half-way
across the floor it turned and looked at Louise with evil, gleaming
eyes. She murmured a prayer, and after remaining stationary for a
few moments, still regarding her fixedly, it gradually faded away.
The Ducanes roused Lucy, and the three girls remained awake with
a candle burning until the morning.
After breakfast Anne and Louise packed their things and,
accompanied by Lucy Whittaker, went for a final stroll in the lovely
old-world garden in the rear of the house.
They were walking along one of the paths that intersected it
when they were suddenly conscious of someone following them.
Lucy and Louise felt a cold hand touch them. They screamed,
turned round and froze. The hooded figure which they had seen
in the night confronted them. It did not look at Anne but at Lucy
and Louise. Anne at once crossed herself and uttered a prayer,
whereupon the apparition wheeled round and strode silently away,
disappearing from view round a bend in the path.
They ran to the house and told the eldest Miss Whittaker that
they had seen the horrible ghost in the garden.
“So long as it did not stare at you or touch you,” she said, “no
harm will befall you.”
D A N G E R O U S A M E R I C A N GH OS T S *75
he left his home. His shoes and handkerchief, stained with blood,
were found in a thicket in the Hollow, but his body was never dis­
covered. It was generally believed that he had been murdered by
a band of Indians who had been causing considerable trouble in the
neighbourhood.
Late one afternoon, twenty years after the mysterious murder
of the farmer’s son, a horseman, accompanied by two big dogs,
stopped at an inn a few miles from the Hollow and ordered a meal.
While he was eating he chatted with the landlord, who advised him
on no account to go through Whooping Hollow on his way to his
destination.
The horseman, who was a stranger in that part of New England,
wanted to know the landlord’s reason for wanting him to avoid
Whooping Hollow. The landlord then told him about the murder,
and said that the Hollow was haunted by very evil and dangerous
spirits, that people who had entered it alone after nightfall had died
from fright or become gibbering maniacs. He also explained that the
valley was called the Whooping Valley because of the extraordinary
noise that was made by the ghost of the murdered boy. The traveller
laughed and declared that it would take more than a ghost to scare
him.
Having paid for his meal, he mounted his steed and, disregard­
ing the landlord’s warning, aimed for Whooping Hollow. The route
along which he travelled was for some distance tolerably smooth
and level, but it gradually became very rough and uneven. His
horse stumbled several times and almost unseated him, while, to
add to his difficulties, the young moon was constantly obscured by
heavy clouds. When it was visible its pale light enabled him to see
that the track—it could hardly be termed a road—led precipitously
down into a profound and rugged valley, which he thought must
be the alleged badly haunted Whooping Hollow.
He scanned the scene attentively and distinctly saw the dark
green tops of many trees waving in the cool night breeze. His horse
was very reluctant to proceed any further, and he had great diffi­
culty in making it descend the steep path that led into the distant
hollow. No sound broke the silence except the tramping ofhis horse’s
feet and the faint pattering of the dogs. So deep was the valley that
even the wind, which had swept in occasional great gusts over the
surface of the plateau that he had just left, could hardly be felt.
The descent seemed interminable but he at length reached the
bottom of the gloomy chasm. The moon, which suddenly shone
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
I76
with great brilliancy, revealed a wild and rugged scene. The track
abruptly widened, and on either side of it he could discern fantasti­
cally fashioned trunks of trees, and in between them large queer­
shaped masses of stone that gleamed a ghostly white in the moon­
light. The silence that had hitherto been so profound was now
broken by the noise made by a stream as, swollen by recent rain, it
swept furiously through the valley.
The horseman had reached a point where the stream inter­
sected the track, and was spanned by a wide wooden bridge, when
he fancied he saw something large moving through the uncertain
gloom. He observed it more closely and perceived to his surprise
that it was a boy, who was without a hat and carried in one hand
something like a bundle or satchel. He was on the other side of the
stream, about thirty yards ahead of the horseman, and walking in
the same direction.
The horseman crossed the bridge and urged his steed forward
with the intention of overtaking the youthful pedestrian. To his
astonishment, no matter how fast his horse went, the distance
between him and the boy remained the same. The boy never seemed
to alter his pace but kept advancing with the same unvarying, de­
liberate strides. The horseman called out: “What-ho! Who are
you?” The boy did not reply or evince by any gesture the slightest
consciousness of the horseman’s presence. The horseman repeated
the salutation and again tried to overtake the boy, but with the
same result. The distance between them remained the same.
The horseman began to feel nervous. Why no reply? he
wondered. Was the boy deaf? And why could he not overtake the
boy? He suddenly realized that although the boy was only a short
distance ahead of him and was travelling over similarly rough,
rocky ground, his steps made no noise. To make certain, the horse­
man stopped his horse, held his breath and listened very intently;
but he could hear no sounds except the gurglings and splashings of
the swift-flowing stream.
His dogs, although usually fearless and very high-spirited, lagged
behind him, whining and apparently badly scared. His horse
trembled violently and was more and more reluctant to proceed.
The obvious terror experienced by the animals infected the horse­
man. In spite of his scepticism he felt a superstitious fear stealing
fast over him. It increased immeasurably when it suddenly dawned
on him that what he had thought was a boy, a creature of flesh and
blood like himself, was not of this world at all, but a ghost.
D A N G E R O U S A M E R I C A N GH OS TS 177
The surrounding silence seemed no longer natural but un­
earthly, and eager to hear any sound that was accountable he
shouted again. The sound of his voice thus exerted in the utter
solitude, and followed by a stillness broken only by the turbulent
stream, had in it something so uncannily thrilling that he did not
dare to shout again.
The apparition, which still maintained the same distance ahead
of him, now entered a thicket and was no longer visible. A few
minutes after it had vanished from sight there was a cry, or rather
a whoop, followed almost immediately by a yell of agony and
frightful screams and groans. These sounds were succeeded by peals
of diabolical laughter and whooping.
The horseman’s steed, mad with terror, dashed along the track,
narrowly avoiding collisions with the gaunt boulders that stood in
its way. The poor frightened hounds tried in vain to keep up with
it. It had continued its mad career for some little distance when it
swerved from the track, so abruptly that the horseman was almost
unseated. He was wondering what had startled the animal, when
the apparition that had entered the thicket suddenly emerged
from behind a tree. The moonlight focusing on its face revealed the
livid, horribly mutilated face of a corpse. A gruesome greenish-
yellow light enveloped the entire body. The dreadful thing spread
out its fleshless arms, and with a ghastly grin uttered a blood­
curdling whoop. It then vanished.
The long reverberating echo of the cry had hardly ceased when
a violent storm arose. The angry wind roared and howled among
the trees, whose branches swayed and bent before the blasts. The
thunder roared and the lightning flashed.
The horseman, drenched to the skin in the pouring rain,
emerged from the Whooping Hollow feeling more dead than alive,1
but extremely thankful to be free of ghosts and once again in the
open country.
A G H O S T EMBRACES
A s t r a n g e story of a man’s ghastly experience in a mortuary w a s
told me by an elderly physician when I was in Boston.
The body of a woman was found one night floating in a river,
1
-Vide The Ladies' Cabinet, 1836.
M
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
and was taken to the mortuary of a small New England town. It
was placed on a table and covered with a sheet.
The night watchman was so accustomed to seeing corpses in
various stages of decomposition that he did not mind sharing the
room with them even in the dark. He leaned casually against the
table on which this particular corpse had been deposited, and to
while away the time he hummed a tune. When he had hummed it
several times he began to think that the friend who had promised to
pay him a visit was a long time coming. The night seemed unusually
still, and he became more and more uneasy. He tried not to think
of the dark swollen river and the corpse on the table behind him,
too close to be pleasant. He had only given it a casual glance before
covering it with the sheet, but he remembered now that there had
been something rather disturbingly unusual about it. As it was a
moonlit night the gas was low. He was about to turn it on higher
when it suddenly went out. Thinking it very strange, as there was
no draught, he struck a match and found the gas had been turned
off.
Unable to explain how this could have happened, and some­
what perturbed, he lit the gas, and keeping it rather higher than
it had been previously, he returned to his seat by the table. He had
not been sitting long before the gas again went out, and something
moved very softly and stealthily past him.
He was more than a little startled. His heart almost stopped
beating, he felt sick and faint, and would have escaped from the
building had he had the power to do so; but his strength had left
him, and he felt, as one feels in a nightmare, all weighted down,
weak and helpless, unable to move a limb. He would have shrieked,
but his tongue clove to the roof of his mouth.
Presently his terror reached its climax. The footsteps crept
nearer and nearer towards him. Something icily cold touched one
of his hands and felt its way up his body to his throat. The some­
thing was behind him; it bent over him. He was in the arms of the
corpse. Overtaxed nature gave way at last. He uttered a piercing
shriek, and fell in a swoon upon the floor. In that condition he was
found by his friend.
His experience might have been attributed to a nightmare or
overheated imagination, had it not been for damp and slimy marks
on his clothes and muddy footprints on the floor. The feet of the
corpse, which had been in the river fully a week before it was
brought to the mortuary, corresponded exactly to the footprints.
ELEM EN TALS AND SEMI-PHYSICAL
PHENOMENA
FA N TA STIC AND D A N G ER O U S S P IR IT S
T h e folk-lore and ghost-lore of many countries contain accounts
of phenomena that are an odd mixture of ghost and fairy. In
Touraine there existed until comparatively recently a belief in
brous. A brou is a phenomenon that is a human being during the
daytime and a sheep during the night. It derives its name from the
American term for a thicket, because brous are supposed to gallop
all night through woods and thickets.
A man walking along a road in the near vicinity of St. Quentin
one night found a small sheep that had apparently strayed from the
flock and seemed to be lost. He picked the animal up, and was on
his way home with it when it asked him in a human voice where
he was taking it. He was so terrified that he dropped the brou,
which at once turned into a woman, who bounded away, uttering
peals of diabolical laughter. She proved to be a married woman
whose home was in Liege. As soon as it was known that she was a
brou she had to leave Liege. What subsequently became of her was
never ascertained.
Brous were sometimes very distinctive. They ran over the country
at night killing and devouring dogs, poultry and occasionally little
children.
About the year 1832 a man who was suspected of being a
dangerous brou was shot at St. Hippolyte, near Loches.
A young man named Charles Robin, a small farmer, on going
into his garden one fine moonlight night saw a small sheep walking
along a path. Directly he approached it, it bounded over a high
wall and dashed into an adjacent forest, uttering the most unearthly
laughter. Robin called his uncle, who ran into the garden and also
heard the laughter, which clearly proved the sheep was a brou.
Brous were said to laugh evilly when any attempt was made to
capture or even to approach them.
A white phantom known as La Milloraine, or Demoiselle, was
said to haunt Touraine. It was of enormous stature, and although
of no definite form was believed to be feminine. It appeared in
lonely places, and portended grievous trouble to whoever saw it.
A very unpleasant species of goblin was believed in the last
century to haunt houses in Normandy. It played very troublesome
and mischievous tricks, knocking at doors, moving furniture about,
181
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
182
pulling the bedclothes off people and making hideous faces at
children. The most obnoxious and terrifying of these goblins was
called ‘La bete de St. Germain’.1
Beliefin maras was more widespread than belief in brous, which
was confined to Northern and Western France. A mara was a
human being, generally a woman, in the daytime, and at night an
evil spirit that tormented people and horses by sitting on them and
making them have the most horrible nightmares. Credulity in these
phenomena existed in Scandinavia up to the present century. The
following is one of numerous recorded cases of maras in Jutland:
One evening some reapers in a village in Jutland found a naked
woman lying under a hedge in a field. Considerably surprised, they
regarded her very closely, and coming at length to the conclusion
that her sleep was not natural they summoned a shepherd, who was
generally regarded as very intelligent. On seeing the woman he
said at once: “She is not a real woman although she seems like one.
She is a mara, and has stripped for the purpose of riding someone
tonight.”
At this there were shouts of laughter, and one of the reapers
said: “Tell us another, Christian. A mara indeed! If this person is
not a real woman, our mothers are not real women.”
“All right,” Christian replied. “Wait and see.”
Bending over her he whispered in her ear, whereupon a queer
little creature came out of the grass, and running up to her dis­
appeared in her mouth. Christian gave her a push. She rolled over
three times, sprang to her feet, and with a wild, startled cry leaped
over a high bush and vanished. The reapers hurried home, con­
vinced that Christian had spoken the truth, and that the naked
person really was a wicked mara.
Belief in black elves existed in Great Britain up to at least the
18th century. Among the people said to possess the rare faculty of
seeing these phenomena was Ketel, a pious rustic who lived at
Farnham in Yorkshire.
The historian William ofNewbury relates the following anecdote
about Ketel:
While but a lad Ketel was returning home one day from harvest­
ing, riding on a wagon-horse, when suddenly, in a place perfectly
level and smooth, the horse stumbled as though it had met with an
obstacle, and Ketel was thrown to the ground. As he raised himself
up he beheld two very small black elves, who were laughing most
1Vide Chambers's Journal, 1845, Vol. I, p. 195.
E L E M E N T A L S AN D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 183
lustily at the trick that they had played upon him. From that hour
was given to him the power of seeing elves wherever they might be,
and whatever they might be doing, and he often saved people from
their malice.
He assured those people who were fortunate enough to gain his
confidence—for he did not tell these things to everybody—that
there were some hobgoblins who were large and strong, and who
were capable of doing much hurt to those who might fall into their
power; but that others were very small and contemptible, incapable
of doing much harm, and very stupid and foolish, but who delighted
in tormenting and teasing mankind.
He said that he often saw them sitting by the roadside on the
look-out for travellers, upon whom to play their tricks, and laughing
in high glee when they could cause either them or their horses to
stumble, particularly when the rider, irritated by his steed, spurred
and beat it well after the accident.
Ketel, as might be supposed, drew upon himself, by his officious­
ness and by his power of seeing the elves and hobgoblins, the hatred
of the whole of their fraternity.
The English chronicler, John of Brompton, tells of the capture
of a black elf by the Abbot of a monastery, who kept it, clad in a
monkish robe, in the monastery, until someone took the garment
from it, when it vanished at once and was never seen again.
In his book The Norse Folk, or A Visit to the Homes of Norway and
Sweden, Mr. Charles Loring Brace mentions some of the superstitions
prevalent in those countries.
One of the superstitions is about trolls. Trolls are a very dan­
gerous species of elves. According to Mr. Brace, they always dance
on Christmas morning between cock-crowing and the break of day.
In an old castle in the south of Sweden Mr. Brace was shown a
drinking-horn and a little ivory whistle, which were alleged to have
come into the possession of the family through a strange circumstance.
According to a traditionary story, there was once near the
castle a boulder which was haunted every night by a number of
trolls, who used to dance round it. The old lady who lived in the
castle offered a large sum of money to anyone who would go to the
boulder and find out if the rumours about the haunting were true.
At first no one ventured to go, but finally a young huntsman
volunteered. Shortly before cock-crowing he rode to the boulder.
When he drew near it he heard the sound of music and dancing
and saw the boulder raised up on golden pillars and bright lights
18 4 D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
underneath it. Round and under the boulder were a host of trolls
dancing, singing and drinking. Their queen wore a diamond crown
and had a little whistle in her hand. Seeing the huntsman she ran
towards him and welcomed him. She was so beautiful that he fell
violently in love with her, and was about to drink out of the horn,
which one of her retainers handed to him, when someone, whom he
could not see, told him in a low voice that if he drank any of the
liquor in the horn he would straightway forget everything in his
past life and become transformed for ever into a troll. He at once
poured the contents of the horn on to the ground, snatched the
whistle from the queen, and rode away. Some of the liquor in the
horn fell on his horse and scorched its hide.
The trolls pursued him, cursing and shrieking. As he approached
the castle he found the portcullis down, and the old lady and her
retainers standing waiting for him. He knew that if he could get
over the moat in front of the castle he would be safe, because witches
and evil spirits could not cross water. Galloping furiously he reached
the moat bridge just in time.
The trolls stood on the brink of the moat and begged the hunts­
man to give them back the horn and whistle. The queen of the
trolls offered countless diamonds and heaps of gold for them, but
the old lady of the castle refused to restore them. Thereupon the
queen of the trolls said that if the old lady persisted in keeping the
horn and whistle she must guard them very carefully, for should
they be at any time removed from the castle, the castle would be
burnt down.
The old lady said: “Begone, evil creatures. In the holy name,
begone.” Whereupon all the trolls vanished; but for years after­
wards, even up to the time Mr. Brace visited the castle, the trolls
were believed to haunt it. The horn and whistle were removed from
the castle three times, and on each occasion the castle was burned
down. The family that owned it finally died out, and their suc­
cessors kept the horn and whistle in the glass case in which
Mr. Brace saw them.
A noble family in Sweden, the Trolls, derive their name from
the daring deed of one of their ancestors, who sliced off the head of
a troll queen who offered him magic drink in her horn. This horn
was long preserved in a Swedish cathedral.
Troll queens invariably lured men whom they could not charm
to violent and painful deaths.
Mr. Brace states that when he was in Sweden he was frequently
E L E M E N T A L S AND S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 18 5
summoned to see or hear the spokeri. They were evil spirits who
fought and threw things at one another. They sometimes attacked
and scared to death horses and cattle. The spokeri are as hideous as
they are evil. They have the heads of skeletons and scaly, bloated
bodies. Belief in them still exists in parts of Sweden and other
Scandinavian countries.
TH E SHAPELESS H O R R O R NEAR BRAEM AR
J o h n G r a n t in his Legends of the Braes O’Mar says Creag-an-
Aibhse, or the Rock of the Ghost, near Braemar, was haunted for
many years by a black, loathsome, shapeless, monstrous, wholly
evil spirit, which used to hurl stones at anyone who tried to ascend
the rocky hill. The cries and yells which it uttered were so dreadful
that all who heard them were terrified. No one in Braemar dared
to pass near the hill after nightfall. The dread of the monster was
so great that the people of Braemar besought John Avignon, who,
on account of his diminutive stature, was known as the Sagart Beag,
or the Little Priest, .to lay it.
He climbed boldly, unmolested, to the top of Creag-an-Aibhse
and said mass, and thenceforth the haunting ceased. The horrible
spirit that had for so long haunted the rocky hill and caused such
widespread terror was never seen or heard again.
John Grant in the same book mentions the Witch of Glengairm,
the Thunderbolt Garline, or the Cailleach-Bheathrach.
Before she became a witch she was a young and happy wife.
Her husband and seven of her sons were killed in a battle. Her
only remaining boy was deformed. After her losses she seems to
have devoted herself to prophecy and witchcraft, in both of which
she acquired considerable notoriety. Beyond vainly attempting
through her magical powers to change the course of the River Don,
with the idea of making it flow through Morven instead of through
Strathdon and Strathdee, she never seems to have striven after
anything at all mischievous or harmful. Yet people held her in awe
and declared that a copse near her house was haunted by evil
spirits that wrought great mischief.
The ruins of her home, which was also said to be haunted, were
to be seen as recently as the middle of the last century, possibly even
later.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
T H E M O N ST E R OF T H E M O R A R M OU ND
J . G. C a m p b e l l gives the following account of a murderous
semi-human, semi-spirit phenomenon in his book Witchcraft and
Second Sight in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland:l
On the shore and forming part of the boundary between North
and South Morar, on the west coast of Inverness, is a large, rocky
mound, which for many years was very badly haunted. The few
people who ventured near it alone after nightfall were invariably
found dead and shockingly mangled in the morning.
Living in South Morar not far from the haunted mound was a
man named Macdonail, whose son and heir was a strong, courageous
youth of eighteen years of age.
One evening Macdonail was visited unexpectedly by a man of
considerable importance in the south-west of Scotland.
It so happened that just then there was no one in the neighbour­
hood of South Morar who could help Macdonail entertain so dis­
tinguished a guest, so he told his son to go to Bracara and invite
certain of his friends there to stay with him for a day or two. He
strictly enjoined his son not to return alone that night for fear of the
ghost.
The young man set out on his mission at once. He passed the
haunted mound, which was on the road to Bracara, without
molestation and arrived safely at his destination. The people whom
he was instructed to invite were unfortunately unable to return with
him, and as he could find no one else willing to accompany him,
he was obliged to start on his homeward journey alone.
Early in the morning his dead body was found close to the
haunted mound, horribly mutilated. Around it were traces of a
desperate struggle. When Macdonail learned about his son’s death
he swore that he would avenge him.
Regardless of the warnings of his friends and relatives, he went
alone one night to the haunted mound. He had not been there long
before he saw a tall, naked, hairy, headless figure that came out
from behind a rock and said: “You have come to take your son’s
ransom. Be wise and go home.”2
1Belief in phenomena of this kind existed in some parts of Scotland until
comparatively recently.
2It is difficult to understand how a man without a head could speak; possibly
the head was there but Macdonail, for some peculiar reason, was unable to see it.
Apparently his psychic vision had limitations.
E L E M E N T A L S AN D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 187
Macdonail in response seized the apparition, and a furious
struggle ensued. After it had gone on for a few minutes Macdonail
managed to draw his dirk, and he was about to use it, when his
opponent cried, “Hold your hand, MacCuil,1 touch me not with
iron, and while there is one within the twentieth degree related to
you, I will not be seen again.”
Macdonail stayed his hand and found he was grasping air; his
sanguinary opponent had suddenly and inexplicably vanished. His
account of his extraordinary combat was widely credited not only
in the neighbourhood of its alleged occurrence but throughout Ayr.
Mr. Campbell says that shortly before he wrote his book belief
in the haunting even yet prevailed, and that people attributed its
non-recurrence to the fact that some of Macdonail’s relatives were
still living.
Another wild traditional story, in which there is a jumble of the
physical with the ghostly, is associated with the house and grounds
of Balconie in Cromarty.2
In close proximity to the grounds of Balconie House there is a
deep and narrow gorge, through which the River Auldgrande
pursues a winding, rocky course. Owing to its savage, gloomy
character and rumours of strange, unaccountable happenings on
the banks of the river and the bridge over it, the gorge has long
borne a sinister reputation.
Writing about the gorge in his statistical account of the parish
of Balconie, Dr. Robertson says:
“The observer, if he can look on the gulf below without any
uneasy sensation, will be gratified by a view equally awful and
astonishing. The wildness of the steep and rugged rocks; the
gloomy horror of the cliffs and caverns, inaccessible to mortal
tread, and where the genial rays of the sun never yet penetrated;
the waterfalls, which are heard pouring down in different places
of the precipice, with sounds various in proportion to their
distances; the hoarse and hollow murmuring of the river, which
runs at the depth of one hundred and thirty feet below the
surface of the earth; the fine groves of pines, which majestically
climb the sides of the beautiful eminence that rises immediately
1The name by which he was also known.
*Scenes and Legends o f the North o f Scotland, by Hugh Miller, and Picturesque
Scotland, by F. Watt, M.A., and the Rev. A. Carter, M.A.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
188
from the brink of the chasm; all these objects cannot be con­
templated without exciting emotions of wonder and admiration
in the mind of every beholder.”
The traditional story is as follows: About the middle of the
17th century the Laird of Balconie returned home from a rather
long absence with a beautiful young wife. She was singularly re­
served and never alluded to her family or her pre-marriage days.
She shunned society and used to ramble in places where there was
little likelihood of her encountering anyone. The Gorge of the
Auldgrande seemed to have a great attraction for her; it was in its
immediate vicinity that she spent hours every day.
A sudden change came over her. She grew less reserved and
much more sociable, no longer shunning all her husband’s acquaint­
ances ; but there was a mysterious wildness about her which inspired
everyone who came in contact with her with a feeling of fear and
apprehension. She seemed to be a creature of another world, not
wholly human.
One evening she set out to the gorge accompanied by one of
her maids, a pretty, simple Highland girl to whom she had become
curiously attached. It was dusk when they reached the gorge. The only
sound that they could hear was the murmuring of the distant river.
“Let us approach nearer the edge,” said the lady, speaking for
the first time since she had left the house.
“No, no, not any nearer, madam,” the girl cried. “The gully
is haunted. Strange lights and shapes have been seen in it after
nightfall.”
“Pshaw!” the lady exclaimed. “How can you believe such
stories? Come with me. I will show you a path which leads right
down to the river.” She seized the girl and dragged her, despite her
struggles, towards the edge of the chasm. “You must come with
me,” she screamed, “there is no escape for you.”
“Suffer me, lady, to accompany you,” a strong, masculine voice
said. “Your surety, madam, must be a willing one.”
A dark man in green suddenly appeared by the side of the lady,
who immediately removed her hands from the girl and, with an
expression of passive despair, allowed the stranger to lead her to
the brink of the gorge. She turned round on reaching the precipice
and taking a bunch of household keys from her belt threw them to
the maid. The keys struck a granite boulder and left on it an
impression which is there to this day.
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
T H E H O R R O R OF T H E PO O L
As I h a v e already remarked there are many traditions and stories
of ghostly happenings associated with my branch of the old
O’Donnells and my grandmother’s family, the Vizes of Cork and
Limerick. There are also many stories of the supernatural associated
with my O’Brien and Maunsell forebears.
My father, who collected many of these stories, and was deeply
interested in ghost-lore, contacted the supernatural himself on more
than one occasion.
The adventure I am about to relate occurred while my father
was an undergraduate at T.C.D. He arranged one long vacation
to go on a walking tour in the west of Ireland with his friend Bob
Hunt, of Limerick. As Hunt was unexpectedly detained my father
set off alone.
He came one day, after a long tramp through a wild and barren
country, to a wayside pool. My father did not excel in games but
he was a good swimmer. Feeling very hot and sticky, for the day was
very close, he decided to bathe. The road was lonely and little
frequented; there were no motorists in those days. He took off his
clothes and plunged into the pool. He was surprised to find that,
despite the heat, the water was extremely cold. The blazing sun-
rays did not appear to affect the temperature. A few rapid strokes
took him to the far side of the pool. He was preparing to turn about
when he fancied he was no longer alone in the pool, that some
horrible thing was getting ready to seize him. He scrambled out of
the water in a panic. Seeing nothing to account for his alarm, he
laughed, and blamed himselffor being so easily frightened. He leaped
into the pool again, and was about half-way across it when he
experienced the same sensation, only in an even more terrifying
degree. He struck out wildly for the shore, expecting every moment
to feel clammy arms or tentacles clutch hold of him. He put on his
clothes, without drying himself properly, and did not feel safe until
he was out of sight of the pool.
He did not see it again for several years. In the meanwhile much
had happened in his life. He had graduated at T.C.D., and at the
earnest desire of his mother had resigned a commission in the Army
and taken Holy Orders. He was visiting his mother in Limerick
when he felt an urge to see once again the pool of horror by the
E L E M E N T A L S A N D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A I g I
lonely roadside. He went there accompanied by one of his Limerick
friends. They were gazing at the still, dark water, when they were
joined by a stranger who told them that he owned a house within
a short distance of the pool. My father had not noticed the house
until the stranger pointed it out to him. “It is surely new,” my
father exclaimed; “I can’t remember seeing it when I was here a
few years ago.”
“It was built exactly three years ago,” the stranger said. “I
bought it, and now I am anxious to sell it. This pool seems to interest
you. You are not thinking of bathing in it, are you?”
My father shook his head. “N o! Once was quite enough.” He
told the stranger what had happened when he was last there. “It
was just my imagination, of course,” he said.
“I don’t think so,” the stranger remarked. “Do you believe in
the supernatural? You should do, as you are a clergyman. At least
I take you for one in those clothes.”
“I am a clergyman, and I do believe in the supernatural,” my
father said. “Are you trying to tell me that this pool is haunted?”
“Can you spare a few minutes?” the stranger asked. “What I
have to say won’t take very long.”
My father and his friend said they would be very interested to
listen to anything that he had to tell them about the pool.
“I am a widower,” the stranger began. “My two nieces live
with me, and I have an old woman, who cooks and does various
other things.
“I was the first occupant of the house yonder, and while I lived
in it hardly a night passed without something very disturbing
happening. We all had terrifying dreams and were awakened by
queer noises—creakings, the rattling of door handles, the soft, pad­
ding footsteps on the stairs, and even in our rooms. One night my
youngest niece felt her bed rise up and down, as if there was some­
one under it trying to frighten her. I heard her scream and ran to
her room at once. I found her unconscious. She had fainted, and
was quite alone in the room. A few nights later I had a similar
experience. I sprang out of bed, lit a candle, and searched the
house. There was no one in it but our four selves. The doors, front
and back, were locked and bolted; the windows on the ground
floor were latched and shuttered. No one from outside had entered.
There was only one satisfactory explanation, namely the super­
natural.
“Weeks passed, and then one night the cook screamed. I ran to
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
her room, and found her terrified. She declared that something
spongy and clammy had crawled on to the bed and tried to smother
her.
“I had the greatest difficulty in pacifying her. She expressed the
odd belief that the thing that was haunting the house and frighten­
ing us so much came from the pool. She is a native of Kerry, and
like so many of the Munster people is a firm believer in phockas,
leprechauns and spirits of all kinds.
“Neither I nor my nieces had ever liked this pool. We felt that
there was something very unpleasant about it, and fond as we were
of swimming, we had never cared to bathe in it. I hope I am not
boring you.”
My father and his friend told him that they were very interested
and wanted him to continue.
“Well, one night,” he said, “I kept watch outside the house,
and at about half past one o’clock I saw a shadowy figure approach
the house from the direction of the pool. It gave me the impression
of something pulpy and loathsome without any definite shape. I
moved hastily out of the way and saw it enter the house. A few
minutes later I heard screams, and found one of my nieces half
mad with terror. She said she heard the bedroom door open and
something cold and slimy touched her cheek and forehead. That
settled me. Convinced that the house was haunted by something evil
and harmful, I shut it up and rented a cottage about a mile and a
half from here. I go to the house once or twice a week to air it, but
never at night.”
“Have you any idea why this pool should be haunted?” my father
asked.
“No,” he replied. “I have been told that pools and lakes in
lonely localities sometimes attract a species of spirit that is particu­
larly terrifying and dangerous. More I cannot say. The whys and
wherefores of the supernatural are quite beyond our ken, and will
probably ever remain so.”
SOM E N O R T H -C O U N T R Y H A U N T IN G S
L a n c a s h i r e abounds in traditionary stories and legends, many
of which are about boggarts. A house near Rochdale was for many
years haunted by a boggart that used to terrify people by crawling
into their rooms during the night, putting a clammy hand on their
E L E M E N T A L S A N D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A I 9 3
faces and stripping the bedclothes off them. The house in conse­
quence of its molestations was often vacated.1
Clayton Hall is said to have been once haunted by a boggart
that was also in the habit of depriving people of their bedclothes,
which it hid in places where they were least likely to find them. It
was finally laid by a priest.
A boggart that haunted a farm near Blackburn used to scare
the farmer’s wife by snatching her baby from under her nose. It
carried the screaming brat to the kitchen and deposited it none too
gently on the hearthstone, to the surprise and indignation of the cook.
A cottage not very far from the farm was haunted by a boggart
that frightened the sole occupant, an old woman, by shaking her,
pulling her ears, thumping on a chest and gnashing its hideous,
long, yellow teeth.
The Troller’s Gill, a wild, lonely ravine that intersects the bleak
moorlands forming the watershed between the waters of the
tributaries of the Wharfe and Nidd, is haunted by a bargest in the
form of a huge dog with shaggy hair and glaring eyes. A weird light
surrounds it. Its advent is generally regarded as a portent ofextreme
misfortune to whoever sees it.
A farm servant was threading his way through the gill late one
evening when the bargest emerged from behind a large boulder.
The servant muttered a prayer and crossed himself. The bargest
howled and vanished. The servant, who was terrified, hurried to
his destination, and when he arrived there found his wife seriously
ill. The following day his mother died suddenly and his only child
met with a bad accident.
An account of a bargest that haunted the vicinity of Rylston in
Midderdale was published in the supplement of the Leeds Mercury
in February, 1881.
A man named Billy------2 was returning home late one night
from Grassington when he heard the clanking of a chain, a sure
sign of the near proximity of a bargest. He glanced apprehensively
around him and saw a bargest a little distance ahead of him. It
was dragging the chain, which was attached to the collar round
its neck, over the rugged ground as it moved. It was going in the
direction of his home, and he followed it. It disappeared suddenly.
When he reached his house it was sitting in front of the garden gate.
It bared its long pointed teeth and glared savagely at him.
1Vide Lancashire Folk-lore, by J. Harland and T. Wilkinson.
2No surname given.
N
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
It was preparing to rush at him, when his wife came out of
the house and threw a horse-shoe at it. The horse-shoe passed right
through it. The bargest sank into the ground and disappeared.
Horse-shoes are deemed to be a protection against bargests and
boggarts, and that is one reason why in certain parts of the North
of England they are so often hung on gates and doors.
H O M IC ID A L GH OSTS
O n e of the strangest cases of spirits doing actual physical harm is
recorded in a pamphlet published in 1662.1
Mr. John Luck, a farmer of Raveley, set out on horseback one
morning to the annual fair at Whittlesea. On the way he met a
friend, with whom he had a drink at a wayside inn. After drinking
somewhat heavily Mr. Luck became very merry, and perceiving
that his friend was getting restless and desirous of continuing on his
way to the fair, he said, “Let the devil take him who goeth out of
this house today.”
The more he drank, the merrier he grew. Forgetful of his rash
saying, he called for his horse and set out for the fair. The fresh air
seemed to have a sobering effect, for he had not travelled very far
before he remembered what he had said. He was naturally super­
stitious and became so perturbed that he lost his bearings. He was
endeavouring to find the way home—it was getting dusk and far
too late to go to the fair—when he espied ‘two grim creatures
before him in the likeness of griffins’.
They handled him roughly, took him up in the air, stripped
him, and then dropped him, a sad spectacle, all gory, in a farm­
yard just outside the town of Doddington. There he was found lying
upon some harrows. He was picked up and carried to a house,
which belonged to a neighbouring gentleman. When he had re­
covered sufficiently to talk, he related what had happened to him.
Before very long he ‘grew into a frenzy’, so desperate that the
inmates of the house were afraid to stay in the room with him.
Convinced that Luck was under evil influence, they sent for
the clergyman of the town. No sooner had the clergyman entered
the house than Luck, howling like a demon, rushed at him and
would have tom him to pieces, had not the servants of the house
1Vide A Strange and True Relation o f One M r. John Luck, 1662, and Legends and
Traditions o f Huntingdonshire, by W. H. B. Saunders.
E L E M E N T A L S A N D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 105
come to his rescue. They succeeded with great difficulty in over­
coming Luck and tying him to the bed. No one was allowed to
enter his room, the door of which was locked.
The next morning he was found lying on the bed with his neck
broken, his tongue out of his mouth, his body black as a shoe, all
swelled, every bone out of joint, and an expression of the greatest
horror in his eyes. Those who viewed his dead body, and knew what
he had said at the inn about the Devil, expressed their conviction
that he had met his death at the hands of Satan’s fiends.
A very unpleasant case of haunting, also by something very
evil, was reported in the Weekly Budget.1
A young man residing at a boarding house in a town in the
United States of America began suddenly to grow very pale and
thin. He awoke every morning to find a curious puncture on one
of his arms, from which blood had apparently been drawn. Con­
siderably puzzled as to the cause of the puncture, he lay awake one
night, and when he felt something cold press against one of his arms
and bite him, he lit a candle at once. Although he searched every­
where in the room, he could not find anything to account for the
bite. Blood was oozing from the wound.
The following night the same thing happened. This time he
sensed a presence in the room, but when he lit the candle he saw
nothing. He felt such a horror of the room that he left the house
and moved elsewhere. Other people who occupied the room after
he left had similar experiences. The house in consequence obtained
an evil reputation.
People who lived in the town believed that it was haunted by
a vampire, that is to say by the accursed body of some former
dweller in the house, who could not find rest in the neighbouring
cemetery but nightly left the grave to suck the blood of anyone
who slept in the room which it had occupied when alive.
When I was ranching in the Far West of the United States I
stayed one night in the cabin of a man named Trench, who lived
in the heart of a vast forest in the region of the Cascade Mountains.
He lived quite alone. There was no human habitation near him.
He told me that he often heard strange unaccountable noises,
and that one night, when he could not sleep, he saw a tall, luminous,
green figure standing in the doorway of the cabin. It was quite nude,
with long arms and legs and a long white face, with no nose, mouth
or ears—only long, glittering, evil eyes. Trench tried to reach his
1July 13, 1867.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
I96
gun, which was on the floor near the bed, but he was temporarily
paralysed, and in that state, unable to move a limb or utter a sound,
he watched the figure enter the cabin and bend over his dog, which
was lying in a corner of the room.
The dog gave a yelp of pain and terror. The sound it made
freed Trench from the spell which bound him. He got hold of his
gun and fired at the figure. The bullet seemed to pass right through
it. The figure vanished. When Trench looked at his dog it was
lying crumpled up with its neck broken.
I told Trench about an experience that I had one night in the
forest. I was returning home on horseback from Crater Lake, at
that time seldom visited except by Indians from the neighbouring
reservation territory. Every now and then I heard coyotes in the
distance. There is no mistaking the canine bark that ends in an
unmistakable lupine howl. I had to dismount once, in order to
kill a rattlesnake that seemed inclined to dispute the right of way
with me.
Soon after this little diversion I came to a clearing in the
forest, through which the track wound a sinuous course. Some
little distance ahead of me was a solitary tree on a bare piece of
ground that skirted the track. There was something very sinister in
the appearance of the tree. It was quite naked and looked as if it
had been blasted.
“And your horse would not go near it,” Trench exclaimed.
“You are quite right,” I said. “It stood stock still and trembled,
as if it had the ague.”
“I know the tree,” Trench observed. “No animal will go near
it. It is called the Tree of Death because so many people have been
found dead under it. The Indians say it is haunted by a spirit with
the trunk of a woman and the head of a coyote, that lures people
to the tree and either induces them to commit suicide or murders
them.”
He asked if I had ever heard of a phantom tree. I said that I
had heard of phantom trees in Europe, Asia and Africa, but not in
America. He told me that there was one in the forest, that the
Rogue River Indians called it the Devil Tree, and that whoever
saw it always met with grave misfortune afterwards.
I told him that I hoped I should never see the Devil Tree, as I
considered that I had had more than my share of misfortune.
E L E M E N T A L S A N D S E M I - P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A I 9 7
VERY U N U SU A L H A U N T IN G S
H e r r v o n B a c z k o , in his autobiography,1 states how he was
haunted for some considerable time by a very aggressive ghost.
He was engaged one evening, soon after the battle of Jena, in
translating a pamphlet into Polish, when he felt a vigorous poke
in his loins. He looked round and saw a negro boy of about twelve
years of age. There was no one else in the room, the door of which
was shut. Had anyone entered he must have heard him.
Realizing that the intruder was a phantom he struck at it,
but with no apparent effect. The apparition attacked him again
and gave his left arm a particularly painful twist. He finally suc­
ceeded in driving it away. It continued to visit him constantly
during four months, and on each occasion assaulted him, striking
and punching him. By degrees its visits became more and more
rare, until it finally appeared not in the form of a negro boy but in
that ofa tall, brown figure, with the head ofan owl.
The strange experience of a youth named Billing is recorded
in the same book.
The well-known German writer, Herr Pfeffel, lived in a house
near Colmar. In the rear of the house was a very lovely old-world
garden that had a peculiar attraction for young Billing, who
constantly visited Herr Pfeffel. When the weather was fine they
strolled around the garden, and on each of these occasions Herr
Pfeffel, who was blind, took the arm of Billing. Pfeffel noticed
one evening that on passing over a certain spot Billing started
violently, as if he had received an electric shock. He asked Billing
the reason, and Billing said that there was no reason, that he was
not aware he had started. On going over the same spot again, the
same thing occurred. Billing, being pressed to explain the cause of
his apparent alarm, declared that it arose from a horrible sensation
which he always experienced when in the vicinity of human re­
mains, that it was his impression that a human body was buried in
that particular spot.
He asked Pfeffel to visit the spot with him during the night, and
said that he thought it highly probable that he would then be
able to tell if his surmise was correct. Accordingly, they went
1Popular Superstitions, by H. Mayo.
D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
I98
together to the garden about midnight. As they approached the
spot Billing observed a faint light over it.
At about ten paces from it he halted, and would not proceed
any further. He declared that he saw, hovering over the spot, a
luminous female figure, nearly five feet in height, with her right
arm folded over her breast, her left arm hanging by her side.
Pfeffel stepped forward and placed himself on the haunted spot.
The figure at once began to move about. It appeared first on the
right side of Pfeffel, then on his left side, now behind him, now in
front of him. When Pfeffel struck at it, his stick went right through
it. They visited the spot the next night with some of Pfeffel’s friends.
The same thing occurred.
Unknown to Billing Pfeffel had the ground dug up. At a depth
of several feet, beneath a layer of quicklime, the remains of a
woman, in an advanced stage of decomposition, were found.
They were removed, and the earth carefully replaced.
Three days later Billing, who was suffering from severe shock
and had not been told about the finding of the remains, was induced,
not without difficulty, to visit the spot again, accompanied as
hitherto by Pfeffel. This time he walked over it without starting
or receiving any horrible impression. The haunting had ceased.
No suspicion regarding the remains appears to have been
attached to Pfeffel, presumably because he had not occupied the
house for more than a few months. But his conduct seems to have
been somewhat extraordinary.
TERRIFYING PH EN O M E N A
FEA R SO M E HEADS
I am concluding this volume with hauntings by phantom heads
which are often very terrifying and sometimes diabolical.
In the Christmas Number of the Review of Reviews, published
in the early nineties of the last century, there is an interesting
account of a phantom head. A lady was searching for something
on the landing of her house at Brockley one Saturday evening,
when she raised her eyes and saw to her astonishment a peculiar
light on the staircase above her. It developed very quickly into a
head, crowned with thick, matted light hair. It was surrounded with
a gruesome greenish-yellow light. The face was wide and broad,
with green eyes, the expression of which was diabolically malignant.
The lady felt that such an awful thing could only be satanic.
Endeavouring to be calm she fixed her gaze on it and said, “In the
name of Christ be gone” ; whereupon the apparition at once
vanished. She never saw it again.
She could not imagine why such a horrible apparition should
visit her home. The house was a very ordinary London suburban
villa. It was not old, and no tragedy was known to have occurred
in it. The previous occupants of the house had been seemingly
quiet, very ordinary people. Apparently the head was not the
portent of any very serious happening, but its intention was doubt­
less harmful, and had it been able to remain in the house it might
have fulfilled its evil design.
An old country house in Hertfordshire was haunted by two
satanic phantom heads, until a Roman Catholic priest success­
fully exorcized them.
Phantom heads not infrequently haunt certain families and
seem to take a fiendish delight in warning them of some approach­
ing calamity. An Italian lady, whom I met in New York in 1934,
told me that her family was haunted by a malignant phantom head
that always appeared before the death of one of her relatives.
She said her brother saw it the night her mother died, and
that she and her twin sister saw it before the death of her father.
She and her sister slept in the same room. They were awakened
simultaneously one night by a curious noise in the cupboard facing
their beds. They sat up, and one of them was about to get out of
bed to see if their cat was in the room, when the cupboard door
201
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
suddenly opened and a luminous head appeared. It was covered
with matted black hair and looked in an advanced stage of decom­
position. Its pale, oblique eyes gleamed exultingly as they met the
gaze of the terrified sisters, and its hideous, fleshless mouth grinned,
revealing jagged, badly decayed teeth. Directly the sisters mur­
mured prayers and crossed themselves, the head vanished.
The following day they learned that their father, who was
away from home, had died suddenly, at about the time that they
had seen the head.
Clotilde, the little daughter of the unfortunate Queen of Etruria,
or Tuscany, who was dispossessed of her kingdom by the first
Napoleon and held in captivity at Nice, was for a brief time haunted
by a phantom head.1 Her mother, fearful of what Napoleon might
be planning to do to her and her children, despatched two faithful
members of her suite to Holland, for the purpose of arranging
preliminaries for her and her family’s secret flight to England.
“On the night of the 15th of April, 1811, the ex-Queen
was lying awake in her large, gloomy bedroom at Nice, when she
saw the door slowly open, and Chipanti, the most trusted of her
two absent agents, entered the apartment. He halted within a
pace or two of the bed, and the Queen noticed that he was pale as
death. For a full minute the dead and the living gazed upon each
other; then, as the Queen forced her lipstopronounce his name, the
apparition vanished. She knew then that her faithful servant was
no more. Clotilde slept in a little room adjoining her apartment.
“At breakfast the next morning, Clotilde appeared ill and
out of spirits. With difficulty her mother prevailed upon her to
explain the cause, when, with a burst of tears, she declared that
Chipanti had kept her awake the whole night by perpetually
thrusting his head into the room, and that from his strange
wild look and white face she was certain that he must be seri­
ously ill or mad.”
She was very terrified. The Queen soon afterwards learned
that Chipanti had been arrested while on his way to Holland, and
executed at about the time she had seen his apparition.
Robert Hunt, in Popular Romances of the West of England, relates
a haunting by half a face. A man named Berryman rented a house
in the neighbourhood of Lelant. His son, James, said that when
he was in bed at night he often saw ‘half a man’s face’, enveloped in
1Vide Strange Things Among Us, by H. Spicer.
T E R R I F Y I N G P H E N O M E N A 203
a gruesome light, enter the room, stop for a few moments at the foot
of his bed, and then vanish. He was always terrified. Immediately
before it appeared the cat, which slept in the room, always jumped
on to the bed and tried to hide itself under the clothes. James said
his father never admitted that he saw the apparition, but seemed
very glad when he relinquished his tenancy of the house.
Phantom heads lacking features seem to be fairly common.
The phantom of a woman with no eyes haunted Barton Hall in
Somerset and terrified two sisters who saw it.1 The famous Brown
Lady Phantom of Raiuham also lacked eyes.1
2 One of the ghosts
that haunted a house near the Roman Catholic Cathedral in
Birmingham had no features. Its face was a complete blank.3
Leap Castle, in Ireland, was for many years reputed to be badly
haunted. One of the ghosts resembled a little old man in green
clothes; the other ghost, which was also small, had a featureless
face and was covered with something resembling wool. It haunted
a gallery in the castle and terrified people by creeping noiselessly
up to them and suddenly putting clammy hands, that had no fingers,
on their shoulders. One lady was very ill for months after she saw it.
The haunting, which ceased more than fifty years ago, was said to
be due to certain dark deeds perpetrated in the castle by an ancient
Irish chieftain, who for his many evil deeds was doomed to haunt
the castle for seven centuries.
One of the most ghastly accounts of a complex haunt, in which
one of the phenomena was a terrible head, was published in the
San Francisco Examiner in 1891.
A farmer named Walsingham rented a house in Oakville. Shortly
after he had moved into it the whole household was disturbed at
night by the banging of doors, ringing of bells, and howling of the
farmer’s dog, a big, intelligent mastiff. Mr. Walsingham went
downstairs to see what was happening, and found the dog in the
hall, whining and barking. It leaped furiously at some invisible
presence, and fell back, as if flung by powerful hands. It lay huddled
upon the ground, and when Mr. Walsingham examined it he
found its neck had been broken. The noises occurred night after
night, and in addition to those mentioned there were shouts, groans,
piteous cries and hideous laughter.
One evening Miss Alice Walsingham was arranging her hair
1Vide A ll the Year Round, 1868.
3Haunted Homes o f England, by John Ingram.
3Sights and Shadows, by F. G. Lee, D.D.
2 0 4 D A N G E R O U S G H O S T S
in front of the dressing-table mirror, when she felt a hand grip
her shoulder. Thinking that it was her father, she turned quickly
round. No one was there, but when she looked at the mirror she
saw in it the reflection of a great, ugly hand on her arm. She
screamed, and the hand vanished.
Mr. Walsingham was in the garden one day and saw footprints
of some invisible being form beside his own on the soft soil.
One night, while the family were having supper, blood dripped
from the ceiling on to the table, and they allheard themostdiabolical
noises in the room immediately above them. When they went to
the room the noises ceased at once, and there was nothing visible to
account for them. The Walsinghams left the house the next day. After
they left people passing by the house after nightfall heard shouting,
yelling and groaning, and saw gruesome lights in the windows.
A man named Horace Gunn, of Savannah, spent a night in the
house, and was found in the morning by his friends, lying on the
floor in a swoon. He was taken home by them and was ill for days.
He said that when he entered the house and tried to light a lamp
in one of the rooms, the icy breath of some unseen presence blew
it out, and he had to remain in the dark. After he had been there
for some time he heard shouts of rage, yells of pain, and feet racing
up the stairs and all over the house, as if one person was chasing
another. When the chase ended there were screams of agony and
much groaning and moaning, succeeded by peals of fiendish
laughter. After these sounds ceased there was a long silence.
He was thinking that the haunting was over for the night
when he saw a spherical, eerie light in the room. It developed
very gradually into a head with long, grey, matted hair. There
were bloodstains on the forehead. The eyes, which were wide open,
gleamed with an unearthly evil light as they gazed at Mr. Gunn,
who was too appalled to move or utter a sound. The head floated
in the air, about five feet six inches above the floor. There was no
sign of any body. Directly the noises recommenced, with greater
violence than before, the head vanished.
Mr. Gunn made for the front door at once, and had nearly
reached it when he was thrown down. Icy hands gripped his throat,
and he lost consciousness. He was in that state when his friends
came to the house. The marks of bony fingers, with long nails, were
visible on his throat for several days after his harrowing experience.
The house had by this time acquired such an evil reputation
that no one would occupy it, and it was ultimately demolished.
T E R R I F Y I N G P H E N O M E N A 205
Many human bones were found under it and in its grounds. How
they came there was never known, but it was supposed that they had
lain there formany years, and were the bonesofpeople who might have
been murdered when the house was a roadside inn ofvery bad repute.
T H E D E A T H ’S-HEAD OF MARY K I N G ’S
CLOSE
G e o r g e S i n c l a i r , Professor of Moral Philosophy in the
University of Glasgow, and afterwards Minister of Eastwood in
Renfrewshire, relates ghostly happenings of the most horrible kind
in his book Satan’s Invisible World Discovered.
Some of the phenomena were in the house of Mr. Coltheart,
a law agent, in Mary King’s Close, Edinburgh. Mr. Coltheart,
finding that the house he was occupying in Edinburgh was rather
too small for his family and rapidly increasing business, moved to a
much larger and more imposing residence in Mary King’s Close.
He was warned that the house was haunted, but not believing in
ghosts he ridiculed the idea. His maid-servant upon hearing what
was rumoured about the house would not stay in it. Consequently
Mr. and Mrs. Coltheart were obliged to manage as best they could
without her.
One Sunday afternoon Mrs. Coltheart was seated in her room,
reading the Bible, when something making her look up from the
book she saw, suspended in the air immediately above her, the
head of an old man with a long grey beard. The head was sur­
rounded with a gruesome light, and the eyes gleamed so horribly
that she fainted. That night Mr. Coltheart awoke and saw the same
head floating in mid-air. It glared at him with its horrible, leering
eyes. He knelt down and prayed. Presently the head was joined by
the head of a child, and then by an arm, the extended, long, curled
fingers of which seemed to want to grip hold of him.
Mr. Coltheart and his wife spoke to the apparitions and asked
them why they haunted the house. There was no response. After a
few minutes the ghost of a dog appeared in the room and curled
itself up on a chair. More ghosts came, and some of them were so
monstrous and evil that the Colthearts hid under the bedclothes.
Suddenly there was a loud, awful groan, and all the ghosts vanished.
After such a terrifying experience one would suppose that the
Colthearts would have got out of the house with the utmost speed,
D A N G E R O U S GH OS T S
but such was not the case. The brave couple continued to live in the
house for many years, and were never again troubled by the ghosts.
About the time of Mr. Coltheart’s death, a strange thing
occurred. A client of his who lived at Tranent, about ten miles
from Edinburgh, was aroused during the night by a nurse, who told
him that there was something like a cloud moving about in the
room. He got up at once, seized a sword, and saw the face and
form of Thomas Coltheart confronting him. “Are you dead?” he
asked. “What is your errand?” The apparition shook its head
solemnly and faded away very gradually. Mr. Coltheart’s client
proceeded at once to the law agent’s house, and on arriving there
learned that Mr. Coltheart was dead.
A P H A N T O M SK ULL H A U N T IN G
T h e r e are many stories of weird happenings in connection
with skulls. One of them is about an old farmstead near Bridport,
in Dorsetshire, that for many years contained the skull of a man
who was supposed to have been the negro servant of a Roman
Catholic priest. A murder is alleged to have taken place in or near
the farmstead; either the priest murdered the negro, in order to
conceal some crime known to the negro, or the negro, for some
unknown reason, murdered the priest. Just before he died the negro
declared that his spirit would never rest unless his body was taken
to his native land and buried there. As this could not be done he was
buried in the churchyard of Bettiscombe.
The night after the funeral and for many succeeding nights
terrible screams were heard by people living in close proximity
to the churchyard. In the farmhouse doors and windows rattled,
stairs and boards in bedrooms creaked dismally, and uncanny
sounds were heard all over the building.
There was no cessation of the disturbances until the body
was removed from the churchyard and brought back to the farm­
house. Every time it was reinterred the nocturnal disturbances were
renewed; and this went on until nothing remained of the body
except the skull, and every time the skull was moved from the
house the same thing happened; so it was finally decided to provide
a permanent resting-place for the skull in the farmhouse. This
was done, and so far as is known there were never any further
recurrences of the ghostly disturbances.
S U M M A R Y
psychical researchers do not regard individual testimony as evidential
unless it is corroborated.
Yet the testimony of a single individual may be of greater
reliability and value than that of a number of people.
Who is better qualified to speak authoritatively about ghostly
phenomena than the person who has actually experienced them?
He alone knows the effect that such phenomena have on the sensor-
ium, an effect which nothing natural could produce. The contents of
this volume unavoidably varies very much as regards quality and
evidential value, but it may be said that in all of them there is a
factual foundation.
WITCHCRAFT
AND
BLACK MAGIC
M
ontague Sum
m
ers
It has been most foolishly stated that
with the abrogation of the Witchcraft
Laws in England, during the reign of
George II, witchcraft virtually ceased.
Such a fallacy betrays an incredible
ignorance of social history.
During the whole of the eighteenth
century demonism was rampant in
England, and in the highest places.
Hellfire clubs, as the gatherings of
Satanists were called, multiplied apace.
These clubs, it has well been said,
‘sprang, like poisonous and highly-
coloured fungi, from a black soil of
drunkenness, brutality, obscenity and
superstition.’
The size of this book corresponds
directly with its considerable docu­
mentary importance. Dr. Montague
Summers devoted much of his life to
a study of this strangely compelling
subject, and analyses all its historical
traditions and present developments
with a keen and scholarly penetration.
Illustrated
30s
RI DER
‘The author is a master of description and he often
achieves the level of terrifying realism and horror.’
LIVERPOOL EVENING EXPRESS
Haunted Britain 1
5
s
Ghosts with a Purpose ,5
s
The Dead Riders 10S6d
