{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matteo_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Matteo M NDE 5197","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matteo M NDE 5197  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matteo M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2715 Matteo M NDE 5197  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On October 31, 2010, I was at friend's home with other friends to celebrate Halloween. At 1:00 AM I felt the need to leave, as if it were a call. I do not know why. I took my car and started to drive aimlessly. I have only vague memories of the roads I traveled.

I crashed my car into a tree, but I remember seeing myself crashing. I was watching from just across the street exactly opposite the tree. From there, I saw my car coming, with me inside, and crashing. I was calm and did not feel pain. My body was in seriously bad shape. It lay stretched out on the street, helpless, with broken right wrist, a very large wound to my tibia, a closed anterior laryngeal fracture and countless bleeding scrapes and cuts all over my body. I stared at my body in that awful condition. I was very sad, but I did not despair. I watched the rescuers working to help me. I gazed at the path of the ambulance as it drove away, but suddenly I felt dragged and dropped back, then pulled forward into a black tunnel.

As I continued on, the blackness faded and I entered into a space - a place, a dimension that I don't know how to name, which was all white. It seemed to be a perfect white - emanating heat, light, serenity, tranquility, and understanding. I felt good there. I was just my soul - I did not have a sense of my body. I saw people at the bottom left, but they did not seem interested in me. Right in front of me, I saw a sort of silhouette coming towards me, but I couldn't identify what it was, because it/he/she was too bright.  I think the figure spoke to me, and maybe I spoke with it. Anyway, something happened, but I can't remember what, or what words were said (it was actually telepathy, more than words. We communicated without physical speech). I remember a feeling being conveyed of 'NO', in the sense that it/he/she was not satisfied with my life. From behind this figure, other minor shapes appeared. They came closer, communicating something, but I can't remember what they were saying either. I begged them to let me stay there with them, but they refused. I saw them walk away, and the blackness surrounded me again before waking up in the hospital.

All this took place over a period of four hours, but it seemed to me that I was away for only ten minutes. Two weeks after my discharge from the hospital, I started getting severe headaches and whistling in my ears at about 1:00 AM (the time of the crash) every night. This lasted for about a month. The traditional medications for treating headaches were useless - a very strange thing. Now eight months have passed and I don't have as many of those episodes, though I do sometimes - very strong headaches and ringing in my ears. I hear a voice inside my head that I've never heard before and it sometimes speaks to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 31, 2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A serious car crash. I had never been sick, nor had any health problems, before.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the beginning, when I saw myself crashing into a tree.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The time that passed felt to me as if it was ten minutes, but I was told the whole thing took about four hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Now when I look into your eyes I see what you hide from the world. I see your fears, anxieties, what haunts you - and I suffer with you.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a voice in my head that I NEVER heard before, and I still hear it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I felt sucked in and then pulled forward to enter this tunnel. The more I went forward the more pieces of me I lost. At the end the tunnel I was pure white.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw some people, five or six, at the bottom left, but it seemed that they were not interested in me. They continued to talk to each other. Straight in front of me I saw a very bright figure approaching. However, I was not able to recognize what sort of being it was. From behind this figure, three other figures came out. They were less bright, but they were still pretty bright.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was white, and the white was light. A full white light. A light that included all. There was everything in that light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The white dimension-light-place-space.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When I was surrounded by white: peace, calm, tranquility and understanding. When I crossed the tunnel: disorientation. When I woke up: disorientation and melancholy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I do not remember!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything. They also told me my purpose, and I understood it clearly then but can't remember it any more. But I know one thing now - when I play music I feel good, and useful.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more solitary.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot describe the place where I was, nor the forms/people I saw. I cannot remember the words (or thoughts) which they communicated to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see your troubles.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was sad because I wanted to stay with them, but they forced me to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told two of my friends what happened to me and neither of them understood it, and they didn't know what to say. I have known them about four years. Three, before the accident.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I heard a voice in my head that told me it was all real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The voice keeps telling me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matteo_m_nde.html