{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matthew_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Matthew H NDE 9668","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matthew H NDE 9668  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matthew H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5202 Matthew H NDE 9668  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  Nov 27, 2020, was out with friends shopping on black Friday.

  Nov 29, got a call from one of my friends who tested positive for COVID.

  Nov 30, I got tested for COVID and was positive.

  Nov 30 - Dec 3 minor covid symptoms with the worst part being a terrible headache.

  Dec 4 - Dec 10 minor aches and no major covid issues.

  Dec 10 - Dec 13 started waking up at night with racing heart and unable to breathe right.

  Dec 14, ended up in hospital with A-Fib

  Dec 16, taken into operating room and had my heart rhythm restored by defibrillation.

  Dec 17, 2:00am I woke from a dead sleep while still in the hospital. I remember pushing the food cart out of the way and then I blacked out. I flat-lined as my heart went back into A-Fib. At 250+ beats per minute, my heart stopped. 

          While this was happening, I witnessed what was going on around me from slightly above my body.  I couldn't see my body, but did see everything going on around me. At the end of the bed there was a young nurse with her arms crossed.  She was dressed in an old-style uniform with a white paper hat and etc. I joked with her by asking her who she was going to write up. She uncrossed her arms and walked out of the room, never to be seen again. 

Right after that I WOKE up with a jolt from getting paddled for the second time. She was my Guardian Angel. As soon as she knew I was going to be OK, she left.

  Dec 18, Ambulance ride to main hospital

  Dec 21, Pacemaker/Defibrillator installed.

  Dec 22, home  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 17 Dec 2020  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      A-fib  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Went into A-fib cardiac arrest  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I could see the nurses working around my bed but couldn't hear them.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was like I knew everything everywhere on a level of awareness I've never known.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my Angel  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was tunnel-like focused on my guardian angel at the end of the bed.  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was silenced. I could only hear what I was saying to her.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Guardian angel  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness  Joy  Elation  Peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     This experience opened my eyes to myself and has changed my whole outlook on life. I'm not afraid any longer.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I have always believed in a higher power but do not believe in organized religion.    

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Live life in the now  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   My Guardian Angel  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Not sure how it relates to my experiance.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes my life has Purpose. It became much more clear.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     There definitely is Guardian angels out there looking after us so I know there is someplace they and us will reside after this world.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life’s difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I definitely live my life more in the now not worried about the future or regretting the past.  
  
  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Much better. I have greater appreciation.  
  
After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.
  
  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always had some minor empathic awareness, but since the experience, it has been heightened to new levels.  
  
  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about a month later and I only tell people who I know will understand it. Most people can't grasp it.  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matthew_h_nde.html