{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matthew_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Matthew M Possible NDE 3542","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matthew M Possible NDE 3542  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matthew M Possible NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1582 Matthew M Possible NDE 3542  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Well, I was in jail for minor BS for three months, and the night I got released was my birthday. I went out drinking; being Vegas everything is open twenty-four hours. The next thing I remember was that I was on an airplane, or something similar, and there were two people with a man, a woman and me. The man didn't say much, but the woman talked with me, I forget about what. Then I remember being in a doctor's office, my hand was paralyzed, and he injected me with something, and immediately it was back to normal! I know this sounds bad but I had sexual relations with one of the 'flight attendants'. Then I remember the girl who was with the guy came up to me and said I couldn't go with them yet, but she will see me in the future. I didn't know I was in a coma, which lasted two or three weeks. My question is how I knew my hand was paralyzed BEFORE I woke up from the coma! Impossible. I now suffer immense pain in my leg because my ankle is paralyzed, and the rest of the muscles are compensating for the paralyzed part. Anyhow I KNOW there is an afterlife, I caught a glimpse of it, remember it everyone DIES so this can't be all there is. My experience was so real it took my dad three months to convince me otherwise!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-1-05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attackDirect head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) they had to inject me through the chest bone to bring me back  Someone hit me in the head with a hammer twice resulting in a stroke which left the left side of my body paralyzed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   None, I was comatose.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None, I was comatose.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    But they had to give me neomycin which ate away eighty percent of my hearing. When I woke up I was deaf, during the first year of recovery I needed hearing aids - but miraculously my hearing came back to only twenty percent loss.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Two people, an Asian man, and the Asian lady who told me I couldn't go with her yet.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Strong sexual desire which is funny, normally I don't really think about sex.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I know there is something else, but the Bible is just a plagiaristic recount on ancient documents.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I know there is something else, but the Bible is just a plagiaristic recount on ancient documents.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My father and I get along better.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was like being in ten places at the same time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They just shined me off like I was crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My dad had to show me documents that I was indeed in jail, and not on a vacation.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definately not real      I think it was a mixture of my subconscious, but what was strange was the angel gave me a bracelet, and I showed it to my dad, he said a nurse put it on me while I was in a coma.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matthew_m_possible_nde.html