{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matt_e_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Matt E Probable NDE 4370","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matt E Probable NDE 4370  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matt E Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2165 Matt E Probable NDE 4370  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke at 2:10 am to find myself looking at the alarm clock drifting around the room and feeling light and cool (airy) going out to kitchen then back to bedroom to find myself looking for the first and only time in my life at myself from somewhere else. I then drifted outside through the wall to see my dog who was whining and cowering with one paw over his head looking up at me - as if he could see me (also I was wondering why I could see so clearly at such an early hour). I could hear all the activities of the surrounding area. 

As I drifted out to the street, I looked at my neighbor's porch, laundry line, and the home next door with the Chevy parked in the driveway.  I figured Randy must have been off from work, often he worked nights. I started to drift down the road but the house at the end was not visible just a lighter area of fog like something out of twilight zone. As I got nearer, I came to the realization I did not want to go. 

The field seemed stronger as I got closer. I fought to change direction and finally tension that ended with a feeling of falling backwards into a hole - waking to a sensation of my whole body excruciatingly tingling all at once from scalp, eyelids, ear lobes to the ends of my toes, gasping for breath. I scared my wife who jumped back as I awoke. She was kneeling on top of me pounding on my chest to wake me. When she sprang back, my arms retracted as if I had rigor mortis and she could not straighten them. The clock showed 3:20. It was another twenty minutes before I could sit on the edge of the bed and take one sip of water. I was stiff for days after and now experience other events that seem more than coincidental.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  may 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    woke up looking down at myself...later revived by wife who woke to find me not breathing  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the instant I woke up [there] looking at the alarm clock 2:10 am until just as I fell backwards into a void then it seemed like a moment or two of blank then I awoke again on this side.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to be progressing at a normal rate I woke at 3:20 am.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I normally have poor vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything clear and recognizable, nothing loud.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Through the walls of the mobile home into the yard around the garden back inside to see my wife and I lying on the bed then through the house and back outside no other persons just my dog who cowered and whined as I neared as if he could see or sense me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Just the lighter fog at the end of the road but not the house that should have been there - nothing beyond the fog.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Only time ever where I was looking at me from somewhere else.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe you don't just die. I would like to know if my premonitions could be useful in some way to prevent some bad thing for somebody.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe you don't just die. I would like to know if my premonitions could be useful in some way to prevent some bad thing for somebody.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Can sense impending illnesses in others, feels like a static charge on the back of my hands. Premonitions and visions but not often of importance usually just odd events to happen around people I come in contact with except the sense I have of knowing the last time I'll see someone or dreaming of them and seeing them or hearing of their death soon after, people I haven't seen for years. I lucid dream now before I wake, sometimes there are weird things. Last September I dreamed that a box of stuffed animals was on the nightstand and that day a parent donated a box of stuffed animals to my wife's 2nd grade class. Luckily, I've gotten to the point where I tell her the dreams.  That way it is a validation if something happens.  Last summer we were riding in our convertible and stopped for a yard sale. The static wave came over me and I told her to look around to see who was near - three bikers behind us. I pulled off the road and the bikers rode by - the wave left that was Saturday morning. The Monday paper: freak biker accident, biker falls off bike into oncoming traffic and dies, seven or eight miles past where we met. Coincidence? Went hiking, forest ranger has us fill out log, going four hikers, returning five. He wasn't amused. That day we found a lost hiker and returned as a group of five. Coincidence? I have many similar stories. Some of visits from people who I later find have died around the time of the 'dream'. I try to keep objective and very few people, my wife, maybe two others, know about my awake dreams which are different from normal dreams and I can tell them apart.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Go at a slower pace, calmer.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The awareness of all that was going on outside [in the neighborhood] up to the edge of the fog at the end of our road and the fact that my dog seemed to be aware of my presence.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many, some explained above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't fear death or rile very easily, overly patient. Now collecting knowledge and meaning of accessed extra senses.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only my wife and two others and not until recently except a psychic class I took in adult education two years ago, I was singled out by the instructor on an intuition she had.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Just want to know if I really traveled or not and was I dead?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Just the dreaming and premonitions which usually happen when I'm most relaxed and not thinking about it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have never used any drugs or meds, never smoked, do not care for alcohol so I never have been a drinker either.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matt_e_probable_nde.html