{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matt_mc_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Matt Mc Possible NDE 7894","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matt Mc Possible NDE 7894  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matt Mc Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4089 Matt Mc Possible NDE 7894  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I always knew I had something in store for me ever since I was young. I was petrified of death my whole childhood and something was always telling me I'm going to die young. I had been through a lot of emotional trauma throughout my life and I was tormented by the way I was attacked by people ever since middle school.  It seems I was hated for being a good looking guy and the other boys would do anything to make me look bad.  They would dare me to do the silliest things. As a nice boy looking for security, I would do anything. This ended up becoming a repeated habit by people throughout my life. Threatened by the fact I would always be better than them, I would be messed with so I wouldn't gain credibility. Anyway I had kept to myself since 21 yrs old and settled down with a fiancé who I have 2 children with. Years had passed.  

I was facing my 28th birthday in a few weeks, but I had a strong feeling I wasn't going to be alive for this birthday. I started to have trouble breathing and it felt like my lungs were slowly freezing or paralyzing. I started seeing spirits and could feel a presence in the house. I was comfortable with that fact. As the days went by, I found myself sitting on my mattress on the floor and I completely stopped breathing.  My lungs finally froze. 

I passed into the vacuum of a black hole.  Then, I'm was in a universal space and had a few balls of energy, that were entities, around me. I noticed a big wheel beside me .  The wheel had an electric blue thread spinning a web going towards the earth. I had a strong sense this was somehow cleaning up bad energy. I found myself begging to return to my body and saying I wasn't ready to die. There was a light of heavenly nature giving me a sense it wanted me to go into the light almost asking me to 'come up here with us.' I refused and explained that I have two young children who would miss me. The next thing I know is I've gone back into my body but my head was still a black hole vacuum. I was terrified and it seemed to last ages until my mind awoke back in my body.  

I could not breathe. I jumped up and grabbed the door frame and made myself get a lung full of air, it felt like the first breath I had ever taken I was so relieved. Anyway over the next few hours I noticed an immense blissful light filling my body.  It started to emanate from my hands, eyes and mouth. It felt absolutely incredible and I was fascinated. I went for a walk and enjoyed this incredible experience, everything around me was beautiful and extremely colorful. On my way back home, my mind seemed to freeze in that geographical location.  I seemed to be walking but the world was moving under my feet like I was on an escalator. A birds-eye perception?? It was bazaar. 

I made it home and everything was happening with a déjà vu feeling. Words I was saying were repeated on the TV exactly at the same time I was saying them. Extreme coincidences were happening, one after the other. I have never felt so much bliss and I know I will never feel like that again. This experience lasted 6-7 days. Over the next few weeks, I noticed I had been blessed with one amazing experience and had somehow tapped into the universal energy. I had received an encyclopedia of knowledge in a very short time. I was gifted. There is no doubt in my mind that this was the biggest mystery ever and that I was one of those people with an extraordinary story to tell. I have been battling this for a very long time, it left me frozen and infatuated with what had happened. I was obsessed with the feeling I had when the light filled my body and beamed out my eyes, mouth and hands. I keep taking myself back to those moments because there will never be anything that can match how beautiful it was. I'm now tapping into my psychic abilities and learning how to control an extra sensory perception. I'm quite telepathic now and its been making me a little ill. My mind is in overdrive. I have so much more to explain about what occurs in these 6-7 days of spiritual awakening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/06/11

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   My lungs stopped working and I passed out from lack of oxygen.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  A white light was talking to me asking me to go into the light  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt as if I was using my whole brain for a few weeks during and after.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was filled with angelic light

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Absolutely high definition

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Was like a black hole vacuum

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute bliss 99% of the time

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     So many coincidences were happening; it felt like déjà vu.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   Believed in spirits

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray all the time now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I now believe there is a higher power

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There was a connection between some kind of universal knowledge and me.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     A definite source of light, which was not of this world.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matt_mc_possible_nde.html