{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1matt_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Matt L Probable NDE 9763","mylang":"de"}
          	        Matt L Probable NDE 9763  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Matt L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE;STE  						5276 Matt L Probable NDE 9763  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I hurt my back at work and the pain was interfering with my ability to sit for long periods of time.  This included my 3 hour long classes in college. I called a friend who was an opiate pill addict to get a couple of pain pills. Once home, I took two. I have had numerous surgeries and have taken pills as prescribed by doctors during the recoveries, so I am aware of their effect on me and the potency they have. I have never had an opiate addiction. In fact, I rarely take them even when prescribed because they make me itch uncontrollably. 

  I sat down to study, and within 20-30 minutes. I knew immediately something was wrong. I could tell that whatever I took was not the norm because it was much too strong. I managed with great difficulty to get to my bed to lie down. A few minutes later, I was having trouble, both breathing and maintaining consciousness. It felt as if an elephant was sitting on my chest and I could only manage tiny breaths. Keeping my breathing going and my eyes open seemed to require conscious effort. I felt like I was losing total control over my body. 

  I had the thought that I should try and get my head to hang off the bed in case I vomited.   I do competitive jiu jitsu,  powerlift and overall engage in activities which require great exertion. Moving my head a few inches to hang off the bed in that moment was to this day the greatest effort I have ever had to muster in regards to my body.   It kept getting harder to breath, I could no longer make my body move and the terror then set in. I knew I was likely overdosing on some fake pills. 

  The terror felt like eternity and then in an instant the terror was gone. It was replaced by a feeling of peace and calm so great, I struggle to find words to describe it. My mind seemed clear, although a moment before it was cloudy and frightened. I knew  that I would be o.k. whatever happened.   I did feel bad  for my family and friends if I was to die. I remember trying to pay attention to see if I was still breathing. I couldn't tell.  I could no longer see anything since  all was black.

  Then I had a vision. I saw many hills and a mountain around where I live. I could  hike and this is where  I spent a lot of time. I had a favorite spot  with an old, gnarled oak that I used to enjoy resting under. I saw this oak tree but it seemed to be glowing or lit up somehow. Out of it flew a California Scrub Jay, a bird I have seen daily my whole life and would consider my favorite. Nothing was said to me.  

  I then woke up. I was surrounded by a dried puddles of vomit and urine. It was approximately 30  hours since the event happened. Once I woke up, I knew I had to switch my major. I don't know how I knew. I had just started college and was taking business classes with the hopes of getting a MBA. Somehow, I knew I had to become a therapist. So, I did. I now specialize in working with children; particularly those with trauma histories.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2010  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Drug or medication overdose.       Other: Happened alone.  No other person was there. But I did not clinically die.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   felt normal 

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the moment of peace and calm, that replaced the terror.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     Things felt very slow  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was unable to see at some point. But I did not have increased vision or anything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes.   There was unearthly light around the oak tree.  
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror, peace, calm; some kind of sadness or concern for my loved onces  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.      I understood in an instant what my career and life path were to be  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic.   I was raised Catholic but became agnostic when I was around 16-18 years old.  
  
  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes.     I believe now that there is much that science has been unable to tell us and may not be able to do so. I spend more time being grateful. I also sometimes 'talk' to my deceased grandparents. They don't talk back. I don't even know if I am talking to them. But when I need support my mind just goes to them.  
  
What is your religion now?       Do not know     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I wanted to be in business or technology. I am slightly autistic. I always loved things more than people. After the experience, people are much more interesting to me. I want to be of service. I know somehow that people are all that matters, even if things are interesting. I want others to feel as good and purposeful and connected to others as I do.    
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        I am more interested in people overall. I tend to not let things bother me. It drives my wife crazy. 
  
After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have no  words for the sense of calm and peace I felt. It was beyond anything I have had before. I call it existential calm for lack of a better term, because it seemed greater than just the calming of physical body.  
  
How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my wife (girlfriend at the time) maybe 5 years after the experience. She was cool about it. Said she was happy I survived obviously.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.I just knew it was real. The vision was for me, even though I still don't quite know why I saw what I saw.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain.   The answer is no but I clicked uncertain so I can add that I have done more psilocybin mushrooms than probably any other human and this experience was nothing like it. Not even close. Mushrooms are of this earth as far as I am concerned. This experience was beyond it.  
  
i8ez8vo           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1matt_l_probable_nde.html