{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary S NDE 2190","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary S NDE 2190  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						605  Mary S NDE  2190  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I remember opening my eyes (in the recovery room) and seeing my parents at the foot of my bed. My mom was crying. I remember seeing nurses scrambling in and out of the room (they were trying to get in contact with the doctor who did not come back to the hospital until the morning - it was night time). I remember feeling weak. I could hardly talk. I told my mom, 'Bye, I'm going.' My mom said, 'Silly, where you going? You're in the hospital.' 'Home,' I said, but my lips did not move. At this time, my mom said my eyes rolled over and the whites of my eyes were exposed.

Instantly I felt a strange, very cold air that seemed to have been blown in one of my ears and out the other. It was strange in that this air went through me and touched my soul. When the air stopped, I felt like a piece of notebook paper going higher and higher. My eyesight was taken, I could not see anything, however, my other senses where highlighted. Two men appeared (one by my right side, the other by my left side), they told me they were going to lead me to a certain point and from that point on, I would have to go on my own. One of them told me I was very sick and my mom was crying.

I remember not believing him because I felt great. We traveled somewhat forward. We then came across what seemed to be a playground area. I remember I heard children of all ages laughing, running, cooing (babies). At the corners of this playground where tall, strong men protecting the children. They did not allow no one out and no one near them. At that time I was twelve years old, I wanted to go and play with them. Immediately, one of the 'protectors' stopped me. The two men that were with me, came to my side and lead me back to my path. They said I could not go in with the children. I remember I replied, 'Okay'. I asked one of the men that was with me where the mommies and daddies of the children where. He replied that the mommies and daddies where asleep.

We went further and I was constantly being informed by my traveling friends of my progress. They told me I was getting sicker and that my parents were very worried, my mother was crying. A while further one of my companions told me that I was given two spiritual gifts. The ability to speak different languages and the gift of knowledge of past and present events. He tested me. He asked me to say something in a language I never heard of. I said it as if I was born with the knowledge of that language. He also asked me to tell him the year, month, date, hour, minute, second, my mother was born and when she was to die. I remember I gave him the information. He said these gifts were my gifts.

We went a little further and I was stopped by both of them. One of them told me I was going to have to go on by myself from that point on. I said okay. I took one step forward and I entered another room, another more intense dimension. I immediately saw gray mist all around me and I was completely surrounded by echoes. 'She's here, she's here, she made it, she made it. Look, Lisa (my family name) is here.' I was not scared. I felt overwhelmed by love. It was like going to a family reunion. They kept encouraging me to go forward. I did what they said. Immediately, I was blinded. I saw green, gold, copper, white being thrown in my face. And then my sight was taken from me. I heard music (loud and soft) being played at the same time (as if announcing something) and then quiet. I instantly felt a presence enter the room I was in and I felt small. I heard an echoing loud voice ask me, 'Are you ready to die?'

At first, I said 'yes' because there was so much love and happiness all around me. He said, 'Are you sure because you are half-way there.' I then started thinking about all the life I wanted to live that I have not had the chance to do yet. And I said, 'No, I am not ready.' He then said (something like), 'Very well, let it be written, let it be done.' As he finished saying these words, I felt something grab me from my back and throw me down. I remember my hair slapping me in my eyes and my face. The force was intense. It was like two magnets coming together. I then felt like I slammed into something and I opened my eyes.

There was a nurse standing to my left. She was greasing up a machine (getting ready to jump start my heart). And my parents were still in my room crying. The next day I shared my experience with my parents and the nurse. I tried to tell the doctor but he quickly dismissed it as a side effect of the medications I was given. My gifts were taken from me when I came back.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in the recovery room (my appendix was removed) of the University Hospital. Something wrong happened after the operation, my blood pressure was dropping drastically.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything that was going on.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert all throughout my experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was not allowed to see certain things. And certain things where too much for me to see, I was blinded.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Since I was not allowed to see much of what was around me my other senses where highlighted. I could see through them.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I entered a gray, misty room. Once I passed this, I entered another room where I heard music and an echoing male voice.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was taken by two male beings to a certain point. Before reaching this point, I heard children of all ages in a playground like area. There where 'large men' at the corners of this playground protecting the children. I entered a misty, gray room with echoing voices in it. I entered a room that played music. After the music I heard a male's echoing voice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw gray and mist. It was if I was in a black room with a light source bouncing around causing a gray like mist. It's kind of hard to explain.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I entered a room that was so beautiful and bright that I was blinded with colors.  It was if the colors where being thrown in my face.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Joy, Security.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I knew the year, month, date, time; second my mom was going to die.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was born a Pentecostal  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I have no doubt that there is an afterlife and a God.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I am now (since marriage) a Baptist.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have no doubt that there is an afterlife and a God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was given two spiritual gifts (they were taken from me when I came back). Once was to speak different languages. The other, knowledge of the past and future.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I have dreams that come true.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This year, I came across a passage (during Sunday school) in the Bible (the book of Job) that describes God's voice as sounding like thunder. I believe the male, echoing voice I heard was God. I believe that is why my sight was taken from me because no one alive on this earth has seen God.  I also believe that the children I heard had already passed over. I was not permitted to go with them because I was not yet dead. I believe that when I was told that the mommies and daddies where sleeping, that meant that they were awaiting judgment day. The children were playing because Jesus said, 'Suffer little children and forbid them not to come up to me for as such as the kingdom of heaven'. In simple words, I believe heaven is theirs.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not long, months perhaps. I shared these experiences with my mom. She was at first startled. My parents and everyone I have shared my experience with has been influenced with my experience. Because they know now that when you die it is not the end.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I know in my heart it was real. I cannot explain.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I passed through a lot of things in my experience that a twelve year old child would not have any knowledge of understanding. It was not until years later, that I started reading the Bible and listened closely to Bible Studies that I started to come across things I could not explain such as; the voice that sounded like thunder described in the Bible (the book of Job).  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_s_nde.html