{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maryann_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Maryann W NDE 7472","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maryann W NDE 7472  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maryann W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3814 Maryann W NDE 7472  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a fight with my ex-husband.  When I wouldn't give him money for drugs, he choked me to death.  I did not know I had been choked until I was revived.  

While I was out, there was a man standing behind me.  I could see myself on the bed looking back at him.  I asked who he was and all he said was, 'It is not your time.  You have to go back.  You have things to do.  I will be here to help you now that you see me.'  I asked his name.  He said his name is Justin.  He told me to go back now and he will come again.  

Then I was jumping up to turn to him.   I asked my ex, ‘Where did he go?’  He said, ‘No one was there.’  He said he was sorry and he didn't mean to hurt me.  But I could not find Justin.  It was strange that I remembered him.  Yes, I did see him again.  A few weeks later, I had gone to bed and the next thing I know I was walking with him.  He told me things that were going to happen.  He said that John, my husband at the time was going to leave.  He told me that my daughter would end up in jail.  

A few months later, my husband did leave.  When he came back, he was my ex-husband.  Justin told me that in my life I had to be there when the world ended and that he would be here to help.  It all happened.  He said to call when I need him for now.  But every time He wants to talk to me, strange things happen.  This has happened maybe 5 times now.  Do not think this is strange: He is not alien.  He always looks human to me.  This is what happens: I go to sleep and not even sleeping, I feel my body as if it is going someplace.  Then he is there.   

One time, He said, ‘Get up; you need to go right now.  Get home.  She will be hit by a car but okay.  Anyway get up go home.’  When I reached for the phone, it rings and it is my daughter telling me my granddaughter got hit by a car.  BUT she is okay and she wants you here.  This has happened a lot to me.   Another time, he said that he had known me for a long time.  He was asking me to remember, but I couldn't.  Until one day, something had set a spark of in my brain.  Back in 1981, my sister said to me, ‘Thank God you called me to tell me to get my son out of his crib or he would have died.’  The roof of her house caved in on her son's room.  I didn't call her, so I checked redial. Sure enough, there it was her number.  When I thought about what I was dreaming, there was Justin.  The visitations started all over the day my ex-husband choked me.   I have not seen Justin because now I fight to stay here and not go with him.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995 to today

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I am places I have never been, until what he said will happen, then I am at the place he said when they do happen.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More vivid than usual

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Great: Justin talks very clearly as well as people around me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace really.  Just two friends talking that's all. Incredible peace or pleasantness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Not scenes just talking about the future.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     See Experience Description

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt united or one with the world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That last one was the one I really said to myself ‘No more I am done’ and now I fight to stop them. What I saw around me was everything: color, trees cars without noise.  As I said I don't really hear sounds.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maryann_w_nde.html