{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_w_nde_4989.html","mytitle":"Mary W NDE 4989","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary W NDE 4989  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2573 Mary W NDE 4989  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was to have an intravenous pyelogram to determine kidney function. When the IV infusion with medication began, I immediately became extremely nauseous, sweaty, and was experiencing terrific chest pain/pressure. I told the nurse all of a sudden I was really getting very sick to my stomach and having difficulty breathing. She called for a doctor who came to my side and asked if I was allergic to shellfish, etc. I told him, 'No, but my father and sister were.' He asked what I was feeling. I didn't have the breath to answer him any longer and the pressure on my chest was becoming more intense.

I felt as if I was falling backwards then and all of a sudden found myself in a field with medium height grass and a small creek winding around separating the field from another field that was connected to some woods. I found myself following a very tall man. I assume the being was male because of his height and body build. We were moving towards the stream where there were three women with various colored blue veils kneeling down and who bowed their heads when we passed. I wondered who they were, but was not afraid, just curious. I thought of my grandmother but did not assume she was one of the women kneeling by the stream.

Then without any sensation of walking, I found myself moving behind the tall being again towards a path through the woods. There were incredibly beautiful flowers, sort of in 3D but not really. I cannot even begin to describe the colors, but they were absolutely gorgeous! Communication was by thought, and non-verbal. I was wondering what was going on when my entire life was presented to me, not as a slide show, but all at once such as on a big screen. It's hard to describe this part because it was like my life was right in front of me all at once. I got the feeling I hadn't utilized all the talents given me and that I needed to do much more with my abilities. But also had the thought that I was still young and should utilize my talents.

We came to the end of the woods and directly ahead, there was a beautiful white light with golden rays. I had the impression there was a city or town encased in that light. I was powerfully drawn to that light but stopped at the end of the path.  I knew if I continued forward, I would not return to my life. I explained that I had just had a baby and that my nineteen-month-old son needed me. I missed him incredibly much at that time and knew I had to be there for him. I said I wanted to keep walking forward but I can't. I have to go back to my son and my new baby. The tall being turned towards me, I never saw any facial features or other identifying marks. I felt I was allowed to go back because it was for someone else other than myself. I also had the distinct impression that I needed to utilize the talent given me and not to waste too much more time. Up until then, I thought I was doing the best I could.

Immediately after this, I felt a lot of pain and soreness and heard several people calling my name. I was surprised at how many people were in the room around me and I had burn marks on my chest from the defibrillator. I wondered what had happened at that point but didn't want to say anything to anyone because I thought I would sound crazy. I was at peace though and knew I would recover.

I did go on to become a registered nurse. I worked mostly intensive care unit/Trauma for a many years, and then became a Hospice Nurse. I was injured on the job and can no longer do direct patient care, so I returned to school for my Masters in Nursing Education and now teach critical care and end of life care courses. My end of life course is the most requested course and has the highest enrollment at our college. It has been six years since I've been doing that. I'm not afraid to die, just am concerned that I haven't done enough yet with my abilities. There are so many people to help in so many ways. I find myself in the most unusual circumstances at times that really help me to help others.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Childbirth. Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Anaphylactic reaction to medication during procedure for post-partum sepsis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I lost consciousness and became aware of being in a green field.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors. It is not possible to even begin to describe the colors; they were very intense, but so beautiful. They looked like the usual colors but they weren't, they were just gorgeous.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Initially I felt myself falling backwards into a downward enclosure or tunnel I guess would be the most accurate.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was following a very tall man who I assumed knew me. I saw three women by the stream kneeling down who bowed their heads when we passed by. One seemed to be smiling. There was no communication with the women and I'm not sure who was communicating with me when I was given a choice to stay or go back.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brilliant white alone and then surrounded by golden rays.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Field/meadow, stream of water, woods, incredible flowers, distant town or city that appeared elevated and encased in a white light with golden rays.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curiosity, wonder, regret, thankfulness, and pleasure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     This is difficult to put into words. My life was presented to me all at once, like it was on a screen or on a painting. I think the only thing I became aware of that I wasn't aware of previously, was that I needed to do more with my life and utilize my talents.  I've learned that death is nothing to fear. I've learned that I need to do as much as possible for others at every opportunity.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This is a very interesting question because I have a very strong sense of future occurrences which happen and which are very accurate. I don't say much in general about this because I don't know how it would be interpreted by most people.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The end of the path in the woods. If I stepped towards the city, I wouldn't be able to return.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Lapsed Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A much more deeper faith and sense of God working in my life.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Devout Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A much more deeper faith and sense of God working in my life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Providing an accurate description of things I saw and trying to describe others whom were not familiar to me yet I felt they knew who I was.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was always a little predictive about things, but that ability became more enhanced after my experience. I could predict events with absolute accuracy and still do. I often have premonitions and thoughts about people or events that also occur with consistent accuracy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I should utilize the gifts and talents given me to the best of my ability. Love more, keener understanding of others and increased empathy for others. Help others not to be afraid at all. Fear is the worst a person can experience because there is nothing to fear at all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years. Mixed reactions. One person has been influenced, not sure about others. I've not told too many others about my experience because I was not sure of what it actually was until a year or so after it happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had never experienced anything like that before and the life review was so accurate. I saw things I had forgotten all about before then and have learned to be more tolerant and understanding as the result.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because when I think about the experience today I can still remember all the details as if it just happened. Nothing about it has changed. It's quite comforting to think about it especially when I'm troubled. I know God is real and He wants me to help others with the gifts He's given me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's been years since this happened, but if my experience helps to dismiss some of the skepticism in the general population over near death experiences, that would be good.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This question below did not allow me to be accurate in my response. I selected wonderful, but really feel as if it were more of a curious and wondering experience at the time. Not fearful in any way, just extremely interesting and engaging.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_w_nde_4989.html