{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2202","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n17_jun_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N17 June 1885","mylang":"de"}
No. XVII. JUlIB,1885.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COH'l'BH'l'S.
PAGE PAO.
New Members and AaaocIatea •• •• •• 411 [ Mesmeric Phenomena .. .. .. .. .. 425
Meeting of Counell •• •. . . . • •• •• 4l7 On Phnlcal Testa and the Line between
Report of the General Meeting .. .. .. 418 the Possible and the ImpoBBlble .. .. 430
The l!.espondblllty of the Society for Cases Received by the Lltarary Committee 433
Psychical Re_rch .. .. .. .. .. 424 Mr. Mohlnl'. Evidence ... .. .. .. 448
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
GBILER, MRS. HERMANN, Warton Street, Lytham.
HARRISON, WILLIAM,The Horsehills, Wolverhampton.
I'ANSON, W. A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Westgate Hill House, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
WALLACE, SHEPHERD, B.A., Frillors School, Bangor, North Wales.
ASSOCIATES.
BOWDEN-SMITH, MRS., The Rectory, Weston Patrick, Odiham, Hants.
BROWN, MISS JOHNSON, Edgbaston House, Pittville, Cheltenham.
CHOWNE, COLONEL WILLIAM C., 17, Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
TATTERSALL, JAMES GRANVILLE, Hanover Square Club, London, W.
TOMSON, ARTHUR, 57, Bedford Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W.
TYRER, MRS. W., W oodleigh, Prescot.
MEETING OF COUNCIJJ.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 5th inst., the following
Members were present: Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney,
Edward R. Pease and Frank Podmore. Mr. W. H. Coffin was asked
to take the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting having been read, four new
# Members and six new AsSociates, whose names and addresses appear
on another page, were elected.
A letter was read from Mr. D. N. Pollock, desiring, for private
reasons, to resign his position as an Associate of the Society.
Two donations were reported to the funds of the Society :-£5
from Mrs. Russell Gurney, and .£1 anonymously, through Mr. John
Digitized by Google
418 Journal qf Societ!/ for PI5!lcltical Rellearclt. rJUlie, 1835. -
R. Hollond, M.P. The thanks of the Council were requested to be given
to the donors.
The usual cash account for the preceding month was presented.
It was confirmed that a General :\Ieeting should be held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall }Iall, S.'V.,
on Friday, the 26th inst., the chair to be taken at 8.30 p.m. The
papers to be read will be the second part of that on "Some Higher
Aspects of Mesmerism," commenced at the last Meeting, and the con-
clusion of the Final Report on Phenomena attested by Members of the
Theosophical Society. Members and Associates will be at liberty to
invite friends.
The next meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 26th
June, at 4.30 p.llI.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
Friday, May 29th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists,
Suffolk-street, Pall Mall.
In the absence of the President, and of any Vice-President, the
chair was taken by Mr. F. W. H. 1lye1's.
The first paper on the agenda was by Messrs. E. Gurney and
F. ,V. H. Myers, and dealt with "Some Higher Aspects of
~lesmerism." The part which was read related to the medical aspects
of mesmerism. A brief sketch was given of the difficulties with which
this branch of the subject had had to contend, and of the sort of
criticism to which it had been exposed. It waS pointed out that, though
a very large amount of the testimony to mesmeric cui'es and to the
beneficial effects of mesmeric treatment was of a loose and uninstruc-
tive kind, and though the whole subject was encumbered with wild and
ignor~nt theory, a certain residue of cases were on record which seemed
to stand on a different footing, and which, whether they deserved careful
attention or not, had certainly never receivedit. Esdaile's evidence as
to his treatment of Hindoo patients was referred to; and a case was
quoted to show that all the well-attested results could not be explained
as merely hypnotic in character. An attempt was made to classify the
cases in which mesmeric therapeutics appear at any rate worth a trial;
but at the same time the chance of any wide success in England was
admitted to be small-few operators seeming to possess the faculty in
sufficient strength to produce specific effects on English patients.
. Dr. Wyld remarked that he had listened with gl'eat pleasure to the
paper which had been read, and that, as the result of 40 years' ex-
perience, he could entirely corroborate all that it contained. He wished
Digitized by Coog
June, 1885..~ Journal f!f Sociei.1J lor PS,Ilckical Rcseorcll.. 419
to refer specially to the curative power of mesmerism in neuralgia, and
to assure those who suffered from it that in the great maiority of cases
mesmerism offered a speedy and often a permanent cure.
l\fr. Gurney then made a few remarks on the importance of having
M. Richet's card experiments (Proceedings, Part VII., pp. 241.-3)
repeated on a wide scale. Any couple of persons, with a very small
expenditure of time and trouble, can make avaluable contributionto the
very large total of results required. It is best to use a pack from
which the picture-cards of each suit have been removed. The remain-
ing 40 cards are held by A, who, for each experiment, brings a fresh
card to the surface of the pack by a random cut. He fixes his attention
on this exposed card, and B, sitting a little way off, out of sight of the
pack, makes a guess at the suit. Ifthe guess is wrong, A makes a small
horizontal mark on a sheet of foolscap in front of him; if the guess is
right, he makes a perpendicularmark. After 50 such trials (which can
be made, according to Mr. Gurney's experience, in less than ten minutes),
there will be a column of 50 marks onthe paper. A then goes through
this column, making crosses of the perpendicular marks, and counting
the crosses.* This, of course, givea the total number of right guesses
for the day, ,lnd this total is recorded at the bottom of the
column. After the process has been gone through on 20 days, 1,000
guesses will have been made; and the numhers at the bottom of the
columns, being added together, will give the complete total of crosses
or right guesses. The most probable number of guesses for pure
chance to give is, of course, a quarter of the 1,000 (there being always
one chan:le in four of guessing the suit correctly), i.e., 250. The
point which it is desired to ascertain is whether in the whole, or in a
large majority, of the sets of 1,000 guesses each, the number of right
guesses will exce~d 250. If that proves to be the case, it will be a
strong argument for the operation of something beyond pure chance;
in other words, it will tend to show that a certain number of B's
right guesses have been due to the fact that the suit guessed was the
one on which A's attention was concentrated. A confident appeal is
now made to Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical
Researchto give help in this direction. If a hundred of them would de-
vote a fe,v minutes a day for three weeks to carrying out the 1,000
trials with some fri(md or rela.tive, a month would produce what is
needed. A hundred records of the sort described are urgently needed
before the end of July.
*The reason for not making a cross to begin with is that a cross requires
two marks, and B may learn, by hearing the double sound of the pencil on some
occasions and the single sound on others, when he has been right and
when wrong. It is important that his mind should not be distracted by any
knowledge of his successes and failures.
Digitized by Google
420 JOllrnal Qf Society/or Psyckical Research. [June, 1880.
The Chairman, in introducing Mr. Hodgson to the meeting, explained
that the actual Report of the Committee appointed to investigate the
evidence for marvellous phenomena connected with the Theosophical
Society was not yet prepared, but that the conclusions which
Mr. Hodgson was about to give as the result of his personal
investigations commanded the general assent of the Committee.
He pointed out how very extensive and prolonged Mr. Hodgson's
inquiry had been, and how absolutely necessary, if any satisfactory
elucidation of the facts was to be reached. The evidence of the Coulomb.Ii
was, of course, worthless so long as it was unsupported, and the editors
of the Christian College .Jfagazine (who had performed a delicate task
with much tact and temper) were, of course, unable to get at the
Theosophic witnesses, and prove, or disprove, the Coulombs' statements
by comparison with other evidence, with the actual localities, &c. Mr.
Hodgson, who had been very justly accepted by both parties as an
impartial inquirer, had had opportunities which no one else had enjoyed
of learning the facts from every quarter. He had spent three months
in India in this inquiry, not only investigating all the allegations made
by the Coulombs, but other equally important points. The result
of his investigations was one which could hardly give pleasure to
any party. Noone interested in psychical research could ht'.ar with
satisfaction that so great a mass of apparently well-attested phenomena.
were, in fact, referable to fraud and credulity. And the matter was
made worse by the pain which would thus be given to many persons
who had believed that the noble philosophies of the East were being
now recommended to mankind by genuine evidences of power over
nature. A scientific committee, however, could do no more than allude
to considerations of this sort. Its duty was simply to examine the
alleged facts without prejUdice, and to state its conclusions without
reserve. Few, he thought, would .be disposed to refuse credit for
candour and acumen to the Committee's representative in this affair,
on whom he now called for an account of some of his investigations.
Mr. Hodgson began by stating that in November of last year he
proceeded to India for the purpose of investigating on the spot the
claims of Theosophical phenomena, and that he went not indisposed
to believe in their genuineness. He referred to the charges of
fraud brought against Madame Blavatsky by the Coulombs, and sup·
ported by letters alleged by them to have been written by Madame
Blavatsky, but asserted by the latter to be forgeries. It was important
to determine whether these letters were genuine'or not. It was also
of the utmost importance to determine the competency of the witnesses
to phenomena in India, especially of Mr. Damodar, Mr. Babajee, and
Colonel Olcott.
After a careful examination, Mr. Hodgson concluded that the dis-
Digitized by Google
June,l885.] Journalot' Society /01' PS!Jcltical Researcll. 421
puted letters were written by Madame Blavatsky, and the well-known
caligraphic experts, Messrs. Netherclift and Sims, were also of the
same oplnIon. It appeared from these letters that a large number of
the alleged Theosophical phenomena were ingenious trickeries, carried
out by Madame Blavatsky with the assistance chiefly of the Coulombs.
Rut further investigations were required to determine whether certain
other phenomena not mentioned in these letters were fraudulent or not,
e.g., the astral journeys of Mr. Damodar; and to determine also whether
circumstantial evidence confirmed the decision of experts as to the
genuineness of the disputed letters.
Mr. Hodgson stated that after a thorough survey of the evidence,
he had concluded that the Theosophical phenomena formed part of a
system of fraud worked by Madame Rlavatsky, with the assistance of
the Coulombs and several other confederates, and that none of the
phenomena were genuine. Mr. Damodar he found to be quite untrust-
worthy, and was compelled to regard as a confederate in the fraud. Mr.
Babajee was also involved as a confederate, but in a less degree.
Colonel Olcott's evidence, he thought, varied so greatly from fact that
it became impossible for him to place any value upon it, and he stated
that Mr. Mohini's evidence would not bear comparison with the state-
ments of others. The witnesses generally in India, he found to be
exaessively credulous, excessively bad observers, and many of them prone
to culpable exaggeration. It was impossible, he said, to enter into all
the details of so complicated an investigation, and in the short time at
his disposal he could.give only a few instances by way of exemplification
of the statements made. He then read a passage from one of the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters concerning the so-oalled Adyar Saucer, which
showed that Madame Blavatsky had made some arrangement with
l\Iaclame Coulomb for the performance of a phenomenon which should
edify }Iajor-General Morgan. This saucer was placed in the
Shrine or cupboard leaning against the door, so that when
Madame Coulomb opened the door, in Major-General Morgan's presence,
the saucer fell and was broken. The pieces were collected and placed
in the Shrine, and after a short interval an unbroken saucer was found
instead of the pieces. Two accounts of the incident by General Morgan
were read. Madame Coulomb asserted that the broken pieces
were taken out through the back of the Shrine by M. Coulomb,
and a whole saucer (the second of a pair) substituted. From General
1Iorgan's accounts it appeared that this might easily have been done. Mr.
Hodgson then gave a brief history of the Shrine and its surroundings,
explaining his remarks by the help of various diagrams. It appeared
that letters and other objects might be taken out from or inserted in the
Shrine by means of a sliding panel and holes communicating between
the Shrine a.nd that portion of the adjoining room used by Madame
Digitized by Google
422 Journal ~f Societyfor P8.lIchical Re8earch. [June, 1885.
Blavatsky as her bedroom. In consequence of the discovery of a sliding
panel in the back of the Shrine, certain Theosophists removed the
Shrine secretly and destroyed it. Statements made by Mr. Damodar
were then commented upon by Mr. Hodgson, who showed that Mr.
Damodar's evidence exhibited deliberate falsehoods, and that Mr.
Damodar was morally untrustworthy.
Mr. Ifodgson then briefly instanced two statements from Colonel
Olcott's deposition for the purpose of exemplifying how unreliable he
was compelled to regard Colonel Olcott's evidence.
Mr. Mobini, speaking for himself, and on his own private responsi-
bility, said that he should not feel satisfied without explicitly asserting
that Theosophy was entirely independent of any phenomena. He
objected to the term "Theosophical Phenomena." There were no
phenomena which could be thus correctlydesignated. If anypersons were
found to be guilty of fraud they would be dealt with in a proper manner.
Referring to what Mr. Hodgson had said of himself personally, Mr.
Mohini protested against being judged behind his back, and said that
the promised opportunity had not been afforded him of explaining
certain alleged discrepancies in statements he had made. Mr. Mohini
spoke at some length of those higher principles of Theosophy, to the
study of which he had devoted himself, which were among his cherished
convictions, and which did not rest on the truth or falsehood of any
phenomena. (See p. 448.)
The Chairman said tbat the phrase "Theosopbical Phenomena"
would be avoided, and again explained that notI;Ung whatever beyond
phenomena was being dealt with. He also promised that full
opportunity would be given to Mr. Mohini for discussion and
explanation, and said that his not having yet had such opportunity was
due to the accident of Mr. Sinnett's being in Paris, so that Mr.
Hodgson'S attempt at an arrangement for a second private meeting in
.London fell through. He had bad one meeting with Mr. Sil1l1ett, and
was to have had another, at which he hoped to meet Mr. Mohini. In
fact, the Report itself was not yet drawn up.
Mr. Keightley explained to the meeting, on behalf of Mr. Sil1l1ett,
that he was in Paris, or he would have been present on this occasion.
Mr. Hodgson said that it was his desire that everything should be
done with the utmost possible fairness. He should be glad to afford
Mr. Mohini every opportunity either then, or at a private conference,
for discussion, and to fall in with any arrangements that might be
suggested.
Mr. C. C. Massey spoke warmly in defence of his friend Colonel
Olcott. He had listened in vain for facts which would justify the
remarks Mr. Hodgson had made. He .considered the two cases of
Colonel Olcott's inaccuracy which had been quoted to be very weak.
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] Journal of Society.for Psyc/dcal Reseal·ck. 423
But even if compelled to admit· that Colonel Olcott was not a man of
what he might call a strictly accurate mind, he should still believe him
entirely incapable of any deliberate misstatement.
Mr. Hodgson, in reply, explained that Mr. Massey had misunder-
stood him. He had distinctly not intended to impute any wilful mis-
representation to Colonel Olcott; merely to state that his evidence was
in many cases unreliable. Mr. Hodgson proceeded to explain with more
detail, the two instances he had referred to.
Mr. Massey expressed himself satisfied if Mr. Hodgson did not im-
pute fraud, but it had appeared to him that no sufficient distinction had
been drawn between Colonel Olcott and others.
Mr. Young, who stated himself to be acquainted with India, and
with many there who were interested in Theosophy, said that in his
opinion these phenomena seemed to be a fundamental part of Madame
Blavatsky's faith and an essential portion of her system. She was the
founder of the Theosophical Society, and he thought it was unfair to
say that Theosophy was unshaken by her exposure.
Mr. Mohini said that the last speaker appeared to misunderstand
what Theosophy was. He referred to the rules of the Theosophical
Society, and said that Theosophists o.s a body had no creed, and that
there was no logical connection between Madame Blavatsky and
Theosophy.
Dr. Wyld differed essentially from the views taken by Mr. Mohini,
and contended that Madame Blavatsky possessed a grossly materialistic
mind, and could have no claims to call herself a Theosophist in the true
sense. She had, however, apparently With the assistance of several
accomplices, concocted a system most illogically cltlled Theosophy; and
he held that the reliability of her teachings, wnatever they were,
collapsed with herself.
Mr. James A. Campbell spoke of Madame Blavatsky as being un-
questionably a powerful "physical medium," and he thought that those
who could testify to this ought to come forward with what they knew.
He thought that in judging her, the nature of the influences with which
she had been surrounde(ought to he taken into consideration. There ap-
peared no doubt as to frauds having been committed; but, on the other
hand, Madame Blavatsky had devoted her life to the cause she pro-
fessed to have at heart.
l\'[iss Arunelale inquired whether the exposure of alleged phenomena
in India disproved phenomena here.
The Chairman, in conclusion, explained that in describing certainevi-
dence as unreliable, no accusation of bad faith was implied. In matters
of this marvellous kind the Society had always felt the need not only of
good faith, but of exactness of memory and some reasonable amount
of acumen on the part of witnesses whose statements were to be
Digitized by Google
424 Jourllal C!f Societ,1I for Psycltical Rese«rch. [June, 1885.
considered of value. In the opinion of the Oommittee Oolonel Olcott's
honour could be saved at the expense of his intelligence. The list of per-
sons whom Mr. Hodgson felt bound to accuse of complicity in fraud was,
he believed, a very short one, and in great measure composed of personal
dependents of Madame Blavatsky's, attached to her by gratitude, and
some of them perhaps hardly realising the moral guilt involved. As
regards Miss Arundale's question, the Oommittee undoubtedly felt bound
to consider each phenomenon submitted to them on its own merits. At
the same time, if a large number of typical phenomena. were demonstrably
due to fraud, the Oommittee need hardly attach great importance to IJ.
few residual cases which still were difficult to explain. They would be
very happy to receive any further evidence which might be laid before
them, before the next meeting, which would b£ held on June 26th, ancl
at which Mr. Hodgson would go into the question of the authorship of
the so-called "Mahatma's letters." Recent Theosophy, as set forth in
"Esoteric Buddhism," apparently rested mainly on these letters;
although, as Mr. Mohini had justly remarked, the truth 01' error of the
great principles of ancient Eastern Philosophy was a question quite
independent of the genuineness or falsity of modern phenomena.
The meeting then assumed a conversational character, and was
continued till a late hour.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYOHICAL
RESEAROH.
It would seem that the changes that have been recently made in the
constitution of our Society and especially in the relations uetween the
Oouncil and the Oommittees for experimental investigation, have not
been altogether understood by all our Members; and that some of them
are still disposed to regard the Society as holding, or bound to hold,
opinions in its corporate capacity, and to consider the Oouncil as
shirking its work if it does not officially pronounce on all important
questions that arise in any department of the researches which the
Society was formed to promote.
For instance, it has been said that" the Psychical Society" ought
~ "take up in a thorough-going manner" the examination of a series of
answers to scientific questions said to have been marvellously made
by a medium, that it ought "to pledge its own credit and honour for
the result," and give "a verdict after full investigation and in
open court." .
Now an official" verdict" on such questions is just what the Society,
as at present constituted, does not seek.to obtain, or authorise the
Oouncil to pronounce. What the Society, through its Oouncil, does,
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] Journal of Societ!I/or P8ychical Re8earclt. 425
among other things, undertake to do is to publish reports of investiga-
gations and speculations, and what it undertakes to judge is whether
the reports sent to it are worthy of publication. And in this it follows
the example of other scientific societies, and in particular of the Royal
Society. In the case of the Royal Society, individuals, or groups of
individuals, carry on investigations, and send in accounts of them to the
Council of the Society, and if, after careful consideration, it appears that
the investigations were carried out with sufficient care and intelligence,
and that the results are of sufficient interest, the papers are published;
but with a distinct statement that the Society does not pretend "to
answer for the certainty of the facts or propriety of the reasonings
contained in the several papers so published, which must rest on the
credit or judgment of their respective authors." And this is what our
Society aims at doing in its own department, which at present lies to a
great extent outside the range of subjects deemed worthy of scientific
investigation by the Royal Society.
ltis, of course, desirable that the investigations so published should
be as thorough as possible, and that any conclusion arrived at should be
frankly and clearly stated, without any restraints or reserves, except
such as may be imposed by due scientific caution; and if the facts
recorded can be adequately confirmed by repeated observations and
,experiments, and the conclusions based on them duly sifted and tested
by a full critical discussion, we may hope that gradually a body of
-established and generally accepted truths may be arrived at in the
subjects with which we are concerned, as it has been in other depart-
ments of investigation. ED.
l\IESMERIC PHENOMENA. (1\1. 1900)
[In the following case, sent to us by Professor Barrett, we seem to
have a case of genuine clairvoyance, though it is impossible to place
this beyond a doubt, since no record of the experiment was made at the
time, and the exact date of it is now forgotten; and since no steps seem
to have been taken at the time to ascertain whether the hour of the
Himalaya's arrival at Kingstown coincided exactly with that of the
VISion. "\Ve hardly think that in the other incident narrated about
G. F.,-his falling asleep at the hour predicted,-can have been the
effect of an influence unconsciously exercised at the time by l\lr.
Glover, as he implies. lt would seem rather to have been the effect of
" suggestion" on a very susceptible subject.-ED.]
I am indebted to Mr. Glover, an Associate of the Society for
Psychical 'Research, whose place of business is in Stephen's Green,
Digitized by Google
423 Jolt/'/lal of SfJCiety for P8.'1cTtical Rcseal'cll. [June, 18S1S.
Dublin, for the following "narrative of mesmeric phenomena, which
have come under his own experience. l\Ir. Glover used to take much
interest in mesmerism, and had considerable mesmeric power, whatever
that may be. His account of the performances of G. F. in the mesmeric
trance seemed to be worthy of preservation; accordingly, at my request,
he was good enough to write out for me the following narrath·e.
'V. F. BARRETT.
124, Stephen's Green, W. Dublin,
Februal,!/ 9th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-Agreeable to promise, I hasten to give you as succinct an
account as possible of the case I was speaking to you about.
It is now about 15 years since I made mesmerism and its attendant
phenomena my study, but during that time I was fortunate enough to have
had some very susceptible subjects on whom to experiment. One of these,
Gustave F., a young man of about 18, apprentice to al\-Ir. Huggard, watch·
maker, of Tralee, was often used by me at private gatherings, and gradually
became most plastic in my hands. Once on my way to dine at mymother's I
called at the shop where Gustave F. was at work, and after a short conversa-
tion with him and his master-an intimate friend of mine and who now
resides in Dublin-he (Gustave F.) said that I had no further control over
him, inasmuch as he would resist any attempt I might make to bring him
under my influence. I answered, "Don't be too sure; turn round." He
obeyed, and I placed my hand on his head, and turning to the large regulator
clock in the establishment told him to look at it. "It is now 2 o'clock.
Go on with your work; I'm going to my dinner; but at half-past 2 you must
go to sleep, whether you like it or no." "All nonsense; I defy you."
" Very good; I say you must; good-bye." So I left him and went to my
mother's house, about seven minutes distant. I had n:>tquite finished dinner,
and was conversing on ordinary topics with my mother, having quite for·
gotten my arrangement with Gustave F., when suddenly a painful recollection
flashed across my mind-" Wha€ about Gustave 1" I took out my watch.
It was half-past 2. Feeling alarmed, I made excuse to my mother for leaving
so abruptly and hastened to Mr. Huggard's shop. Entering it I saw that
Gustave's seat was vacant. "Where's Gus. 1" "He has gone outside,
I think," was Mr. Huggard's reply. So without more ado I proceeded
through the shop to the rambling back premises ; called "Gus." repeatedly,
Imt received no answer; but after a search, to my great relief, found him
literally all of a heap in the corner of 110 disused outhouse and snoring
stertorously.
It cost me more effort than ever I otherwise experienced to arouse him.
I had to slap him on the shoulders and call out" Gus. ; all right," loudly and
repeatedly. He awoke in about three or four minutes, and I made the upward
passes and then asked him to narrate what had occurred since my departure.
" I went to work and forgot all about it," was his statement, "till I felt a.
drowsiness and my eyelids closing, when I recollected your words, and looked
round at the clock. It was half-past 2 to the minute, so I knew that you
werp. right, but I determined to fight off the oppressiveness stealing over me.
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.J Journal qf Society for PS!lcltic((.1 Research. , 427
and for that purpose went out to the yard. I had only got to 'the door when
I became uncons.cious, and remember no more." "
I must now mention that the shop where Mr. Huggard carried on his.
watchmaking business adjoined another owned by his brother-in-law, de-
ceased, but whose widow and sonstill continue the gunmaking then conducted
in it. Mr. Edwards, the gunmaker, had an apprentice, who saw Gus. stagger
in the yard, and naturally, not suspecting the true cause, concluded that the
lad had taken drink, so very kindly went to his assistance, tried to rouse
him, and even went so far as to light a pipe and blow the tobacco smoke into-
his eyes and nostrils, but to no purpose. He slapped his face rather soundly.
and roughly knocked him about, ·but all without success. As he could not
get him either to open his eyes or to speak, he considered him hopelessly
drunk, and, to save him from getting into trouble With his master, carried
him into the outhouse and placed him, sitting down in the corner, where I
found him.
What I would ask your attention to in this account is, that both the subject
and myself had forgotten the arrangement or test intended, and"the infiuence
appearing to operate independently of the volition of either of us, recalling
both of us from the ordinary business of life to act in obedience to some
unknown power.
On another occasion, one. evening, about 8 or 9 o'clock, at a
rather numerous party, I placed the young man,· G. F., in the extreme
hypnotic state, (md after several present had tesbed his insensibility by
sticking pins in his arms and passing a lamp in frent of his eyes (the pupils
remaining unaffected), I tried if I could obtain any of the phenomena of
clairvoyance.
Avoiding leading questions, he faithfully described the interiors of the
sleeping rooms of many of those present, and to which he never had access,
also the show-cards and posters on the platform of the Tralee Station of the
Great Southern and Western Railway, but those he had often observed
in his ordinary condition.
Someone now proposed to test him by asking for the description of a
locality which he had never seen, and Kingstown, near Dublin, was
sugge~ted. He had up to this time never been farther from home than
Killarney, some 20 miles distant. He gave a perfectly correct delinea-
tion of Kingstown Harbour, piers, mail steamer at station. &c. Directing him
to describe anything further, he answered, "I see a large vessel coming
in." I asked for more particulars, and he replied, "She is too distant." I
then told him to take a b:>at or reach her by any means he liked. Seemingly
getting nearer he continued in a few minutes: "It is a large ship, and she
·has troops on board, I can see the soldiers."
I requested him to ascert;:.in her name. "The Himallah" (sic) was his
reply, adding that he could not see very plainly.
I encouraged him to try again, and he repeated, "The Himallyea, or
Him-a-Ieyah." each time using a tri-syllabic word as nearly as possible
resembling" Himalaya."
The remarkable circumstance in this case is, that in two days afterwards
I read in the Irish Times of the arrh'al in Kingstown Harbour, from India, of
"the troopship Himalaya, bringing soldiers, &c. It was utterly impossible for
Digitized by Google
428 Journal qj Society for PS.lJckical Researcll. [June, 1885.
anyone present to have had the slightest inkling of this. Certainly I
knew Kingstown well, and as well as I can recollect was aware that there
was such a vessel as the Himalaya, and that she was employed as a troop-
ship, but there all ai'dinary knowledge ceased.
If it was merely a haphazard thought of mine conceived spontaneously,
and, in BOme way transferred to G. F.'s mind without contact or
suggestion, then the coincidence with actual fact was, to say the least,
very remarkable; but my own impression and that of all present was that;
it was an undoubted instance of what is termed clairvoyance.
In the cases of the contents of rooms, &c., which he had never seen, it
is possible that he became conscious of the thoughts of others through the
mind of the operator, for by no means could anyone communicate by sign,
.sound, or otherwise, any idea to him, unless through me, the operator.
In fact the ordinary theory of thought-transference fails to account satis-
factorily for aU of the phenomena that are here described. I may mention
that this was the last experiment I tried on G. F., inasmuch as his father
(Jalled on me the next day and requested that I would discontinue further
investigation; of course I complied.
I had a very marked case of partial hypnotism brought under my notice
about this time, in the person of a Wesleyan clergyman, the Rev.. M.
Hynes, whom I often placed in this state, stiffening his arms, fixing him to
the fioor, &c., but whom I never could succeed in getting to disregard the
.evidence ofhis senses. Giving hilll a book and telling him that it was a cat, he
would gravely look at it, rub it down, tum it over several tinles, and after a
most careful investigation, lasting some minutes, would, in the most solemn
manner, say, "No, it's not a cat, it's a book."
No matter how strongly I tried to impress the idea on his mind, or how
-often I tried, the result was always the same, never once did I succeed in
persuading him to any but the correct realisation of an obJect in either form,
.colour, taste, or smell, &c.-Yours truly,
J. J. T. GLOVER.
Mr. Glover has been carefully over the foregoing narrative with
me, he is perfectly clear in his recollection, and sure of the facts he has
stated,which he states may be confirmed by reference to Mrs. Edwards,
of Tralee, who was present, or to Mr. Huggard. Accordingly, I com-
municated with Mr. Huggard, who is at present in Dublin, and in an
interviElw with him he gave me, without any leading questions, a satis-
factory corroboration of Mr. Glover's statements, so far as they caDle
within his knowledge. Subsequently Mr. Huggard read over Mr.
Glover's report and sent me the accompanying letter.-W. F. B.
2, Hardwicke Street, Dublin.
Apl'il 9th, 1885.
DEAR SXR,-I have read Mr. Glover's report on mesmerism, dated
February 9th, 1885, and handed me by you, and beg to say I consider the
report, as far as my memory servesme, to be substantially correct. Regarding
the incident referred to in the report, viz., the sleep of the young man G. F.,
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.) Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 429
I remember distinctly Mr. Glover, in the early part of the day, saying, in my
presence and in the presence of my journeyman, "You will go to sleep to-
da.y at half-past 2 o'clock." We all laughed at Mr. Glover'sabsurdity,and
on my return from some outdoor business I was told that G. F. did actually
go to sleep, and that all the efforts mentioned in the report, and by all the
parties therein referred to, had been resorted to in order to restore conscious-
ness, but without success, until Mr. Glover arrived.
As to the other incidents mentioned in the report, I remember G. F.
giving a true description of places he had never seen, and also of the show-
cards at Tralee railway station. I was present when Mr. Glover sent him off
to Kingstown, and asked him, among other questions, "What vessels are in
the harbour 1" He replied, "There are lots of vessels there, and I see one.
just now coming in." Mr. Glover next asked for the name of the vessel
coming in, when G. F. replied, "I can't see the name distinctly, but I think
it is the 'Helena.'" Mr. Glover: "Get closer, and ascertain the name."
G. F. remained a few minutes as if intensely gazing through the distance, and
then replied, "I can see now, the name is not' Helena,' but' Hemalaya.'"
Mr. Glover: "What cargo does she bring 7"
G. :F.: "I can see no cargo on board, only a lot of soldiers walking up.
and down the deck."
Another matter which I recollect distinctly, but which does not appear
in Mr. Glover's report, and that is the fact of our meeting this same young
man (G. F.) in the street and in company with two of his acquaintances.
After a few minutes' casual conversation, Mr. Glover said, "Gusty, you
can't move another step, you are stuck to those flags." The feet had been
held fast, and in his endeavour to move would have fallen but for the support.
of his two companions. Nothing further occurs to me just now, but I will
at any future time be happy to answer you such questions as may lie within.
my recollection.-I am, dear sir, yours respectfully,
JOHN HUGGARD.
To Professor Barrett.
Digitized by Google
430 Journal qf Societ.1! for P8!1cnical Re8earch. [June, 1885.
ON PHYSICAL TESTS, AND THE LINE BETWEEN THE
POSSIBLE AND IMPOSSIBLE.
I should like to offer some brief remarks on three errors, into which,
as it appears to me, investigators into Spiritualistic phenomena are
liable to fall.
The errors of which I speak are (1) mixing up in a confusing way
moral and 'physical evidence; (2) forgetting that the onus probandi
lies entirely on the Spiritualistic side; and (3) overlooking the fact
that the liI).e between the possible and impossible is for practical
purposes rarely a sharp and clearly defined one.
By moral evidence I mean evidence derived from knowledge of the
moral character or the intellectual capacities of the medium. To those
intimately acquainted with him such evidence may be absolutely con-
vincing, but it neither can nor ought to have much weight in such a
matter with others, and though at first sight to impose physical tests
seems to imply doubts offensive to the medium, it. must be rememberE'.d
on the other side that when there are no such tests, he is left to bear
alone before the world the whole responsibility for the genuineness of
the phenomena, a responsibility which ought to be shared by all the
investigators, and which they cannot share except by applying such
tests. And it is here that t~e confusion I speak of comes in. It is
sometimes said that "what WII.S done would have been almost impos-
sible for a conjurer, and the medium was certainly too honest or too,
stupid to do it." A test of which only this can be said is useless, since
it really throws us back entirely on the moral evidence; and, as the
investigator's conviction of the honesty or stupidity of the medium,
however well founded, cannot be conveyed unimpaired to other people,
the world cannot be blamed for concluding that the medium cheated
and that the investigators were duped. Whereas if the phenomena are
due to something beyond the recognised laws of nature, the investi-
g'cl.tors should aim at driving the world to the alternative of either
admitting this, or accusing them as well as the medium of fraud.
And this brings me to my second and third points, w~ich are closely
connected. In deciding on what is a test phenomenon, it must be
remembered that, as I have just said, it will establish nothing, unless it
is clear that it could not have been due to the operation of recognised
laws of nature. If we could accurately determine the point at which
possibility ends and impossibility begins, it would be a comparatively
simple matter to find such tests, but because we cannot in most
eases be sure of knowing accurately all the circumstances, there
is generally a large margin between the two, within which we
can neither prove impossibility nor possibility. And the whole
of t.his margin, made as wide as we can, must be reckoned,
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] Journal of Societ!l/ol' P.sycTtical Research. 431
for the purposes of the investigation, as if it were 011. the possible
side of the line. The tests, to be good, must bnng the phenomena
out of this marginal region and place them clearly within the line
of undoubted impossibility, so far as normal means are concerned. This
is true, of course, of other scientific investigations. Margins must
always be allowed when there is any doubt as to all the conditions and
quantities being known, and mistakes are often made from oVjlrlooking
some of these. But in most scientific investigations the experimenter
aims at simplifying his problem as much as possible; he can often take
it in stages and reduce it at each point to a single alternative; and in
this way the margin is much diminished, and can, at any rate, probably
be clearly defined. In the Spiritualistic problem, however, as it is
presented to us, the experimenter can very seldom secure really simple
conditions. He is almost always embarrassed by a number of unknown
quantities, and the possibilities are so numerous that he is peculiarly
liable to overlook some of them altogether, and it is, therefore,
peculiarly incumbent on him to allow the widest margin he possibly
can. Some fairly simple test phenomena have been suggested. For in-
stance, it was proposed, a good many years ago, by Mr. Hensleigh
'tVedgwood, I believe, that the passage of solid matter through solid
matter should be proved by means of two rings of leather. They were to
be cut or stamped out of a skin as rings, having, of course, no join in
them ; and by occult means they were to be linked into each other. The
problem would then be reduced to the simple question whether or not
there was any joining in either of the rings. If the rings had originally
been broad ones, they might, after they were linked, have been cut
into a great number of thin strips, and each strip examined with
microscope and solvents, and a joining, if there had been one, must have
come to light. But though attempts have been made to obtain this
phenomenon, they have, I believe, been unsuccessful; and such pheno-
mena as putting a ring on a medium's wrist have not the same
simplicity. For, apart from the ring itself .and the question of
welding it on the arm, we ·are necessarily in doubt as to the circum-
ference of the medium's hand; the extent to which it varies at different
times under different treatments, and the degree to which he can, by
exerting his muscles, control the apparent variations. With so many
unknown quantities a large margin in the apparent difference between
the circumference of the ring and of the hand must be allowed.
I will give another illustration. 1£ a half sheet of note-paper can
be slipped into a locked secretaire without using any instrument to
force an opening, it should not be regarded as a sufficient proof of
abnormal power should a thick sheet folded in four be found to have
been inserted. The margin allowed would be far too small. After
trying what the skilful use of a wedge would do in forcing up the lid
Digitized by Coog
432 Journal f!f SOC1.·ei.1J for P8ycMcai Research. [June, 1885.
of the secretaire, we should have to allow for the possibility of more
skill than ours, of devices which we had not thought of, and perhaps
for the possibility that the wood might be more amenable to the bending
required in some states of the atmosphere than in others. It would
not, however, be of much consequence making these experiments and
allowances in the particular case of a secretaire, because the test could
never be a good one, owing to the almost irremediable uncertainties
introduced by the lock, and the possibility of opening it by a duplicate
key, or by a key accidenb\lly left about.
But in reading accounts of physical phenomena attributed to extra-
physical agency, it really sometimes appears to me that the investigators
have not only omitted to allow the necessary margin beyrmd what can
be proved physically possible, but have even regarded as test phe-
nomena things which can be proved physically possible by simple
experiment-things which they themselves could do if they tried.
For instance, writing on the ceiling has been regarded as a
test phenomenon, and the suggestion that it might be done with a
pencil attached to a broomstick treated with scorn. Well, I do not
know about a broomstick-I have not tried it-but I found no difficulty
in attaching a pencil to a walking stick by two elastic bands,standing on
a table and writing on my own ceiling, which is eleven feet htgh. The
whole process-fastening on the pencil and writing a word or two-
took about two minutes.
It may be laid down as a rule that investigators should make a
practice of trying themselves to reproduce, as nearly as they can, any
phenomena that appear to them worthy of notice; especially when, as
is so often the case, the 8oi-di,ant spirits choose the tests; for very
many things appear wonderful merely because they are beyond the
range of our ordinary experience. And I may add, that before finally
pronouncing what has been observed to be physically impossible, it
would generally be desirable to take the opinion of persons well versed
in mechanical contrivances and prestidigitation.
I will conclude by pointing out two classes of tests where it is
especially necessary to allow a very wide margin between the clearly
possible and the clearly impossible. They are (1) tests such as I have
just spoken of, selected, not by the investigators, but by the 8oi-disallt
spirits, and not determined on beforeh~d; and (2) tests selected by
the investigators, but only once accomplished amid repeated failures.
And the reason is the same in both cases, namely, that some entirely
accidental, and therefore unsuspected circumstance, may have made the
particular phenomenon possible, by normal means, on the particular
occasion. E. M. S.
Digitized by Google
.Junt', 1885.] Journal of Society for PsycMcal Researclt. 433
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. -8oo-An pn
(Continued. )
TELEPATHIC TRANSMISSION OF THE SENSATION OF SMELL.
[The following incident is in itself too trivial to be regarded as affording
important evidence for telepathy. But as we have other, and more striking
instances of thought.transference between Mr. and Mrs. Newnham, (see
L.-1011, and Mr. Myers' paper on Automatic Writing in P·roceedings VIII.)
it seems probable that this case also was telepathic.]
From the Rev. P. H. Newnhanl.
January 26th, 1885.
In March, 1861, I was living at Houghton, Rants. My wife was at the
time confined to the house, by delicacy of the lungs. Oue day, walking
through a lane, I found the first wild violets of the spring, and took them
home to her.
Early in April I was attacked with a d3ngerous illn6l!8; and in June left
the place. I never t.old my wife exactly where I found the violets, nor, for
the reasons explained, did I ever walk with her past the place where they
grew, for many years.
In November, 1873, we were lltaying with friends at Houghton; and
myself and wife took a walk up the lane in question. As we passed by the
place the recollection of those early violets or 121 years ago flashed upon
my mind. At the usual interval of some 20 or 30 seconds my wife remarked,
" It's' very curious, but if it were not impossible, I should declare that 1
could smell violets in the hedge."
I had not spoken, or made any gesture or movement of any kind, to indi-
cate what I was thinking of. Neither had my memory called up the perfume.
All that I thought of was the exact locality on the hedge bank ; my memory
being exceedingly minute for locality.
The following is Mrs. Newnham's account :-
Maker Vicarage, Devonport,
May 28th, 1885.
I perfectly remember our walking one day in November, 1873, at
Houghton, and suddenly finding so strong a scent of violets in the air that I
remarked to my husband,"If it were not so utterly impoBBible I shoulddeclare
I smelt violets!" Mr. Newnham then reminded me tl1at he had found violets
in that spot 12 years before, and said he had just been thinking of it. I
llad quite forgotten the circumstance till thus reminded.
L.-8ll-Ad 1'8 -(Borderland)
Extract of a letter received by me from my brother, Henry C. Field
{Surveyor and Civil Engineer), l'eaident at Tutallihika, Wanganni, New
Zealand, in reply to letters we had written to him telling about our mother's
death.
" March 7U~. 1874.
" I was deeply interested in the account of our motl1er's last illness, and
Digitized by Google
434 Journal qf Socz'efy for Psychical Researclt. [June, 1885.
was particularly struck by the circumstance of my name being called,because
I heard it. I am not accustomed to dream. and am sure I speak far within
the mark when I say that I have not dreamed a dozen times since my
marriage, 23 years since. Dreams, too, are supposed to arise from
something affecting one's mind, and producing some temporary strong
impression, and in this case there was nothing which could affect me in that
direction, but some qUIte the reverse.
" Our first horticultural show of the season took place on November 27th.
I WOll several prizes; and after the show closed at 10 p.m., I had to take
home some of my smaller exhibits, and arrange for getting the others home
next morning. It was thus near midnight when I reached home, and the
only things talked about by -- and myself afterwards were the show and
matters of local interest. If anything, therefore, were likely to be on my
mind when I fell asleep, it would probably be one or other of the above
matters. I do not know how long I slept, but my first sleep was over and I
was lying in a sort of half-awake, half-asleep state, when I distinctly heard
our mother's voice say faintly, •Harry, Harry!' and when daylight came
and I thought the matter over, I wondered what could have possessed me to
fancy such a thing. Our Uncle C. and his family called me Harry, and
Uncle B. sometimes did so, and the Do's also called me Harry, but with
these exceptions I was called Heury by all our relations. It is possible our
mother may have called me •Harry' during my very early childhood, but so
long as I can remember she Inways called our father' Papa' and me •Henry.'
It seemed to me, therefore, so utterly absurd that I should fancy her calling
me by a name that I never recollected to have heard her use, that I mentally
laughed at the idea and wondered how such a thing should have entered my
head. Still the circumstance struck me as so strange that I underlined the
data on the margin of my working diary in order that if anything should
occur to corroborate it, I might be certail}. as to the time. Directly, there-
fore, after I reached home with S.'s and your letters, I turned to the diary
and found the underlined date was November 28th. It was evidently during
the afternoon of November 27th that our mother uttered my name (this
would have been so, A. F.); and allowing for the difference of longitude, the
time would be early morning of the 28th with us, so that I don't think there-
can be any question that the call actually reached my ear. I am only sorry
that I was not sufficiently awake to note the e:x;act time, but should fancy it.
to have been between 2 and 3 o'clock in the morning, which would represent
a few minutes later on the previous afternoon with you. The whole-
circumstance, however, only adds another to the numberless .nes which
prove that our minds or souls possess powers of which we have, as yet, a
most imperfect knowledge, and means of communication with each other
which are beyond our finite comprehension. They are, in fact, the strongest.
evidence, in my opinion, which we have of the existence of the soul; and I
believe it is this feeling which leads the class of people who arrogate to
themselves the title of •free-thinkers,' to try to explain them away or cast
doubt upon them, since it is perfectly certain that they cannot be accounted
for by the action of any materialistic portion of our being."
I certify that the above is a correct extract from my brother's letter,
written ~o me from Wanganni on the above date. I may add that a few
Digitized by Google
June,1885.] Journal of Socjet!lfor PS.'lcli.ical Re.gearch. 435
weeks before we received this letter from :hlm, my sister also had a letter
from my brother, in which he entered at some length into her future move·
ments, and offered her a home, if she should like to accept it, on one of his
acquired sections in Wanganni or Turahina. My brother alludes to his
having 80 written i'II a 8tWseqtumtportion of the letter from which I have quoted,
and says that he believes he was led to do this partly ill consequence of the
idea which the circumstance he had described had left on his mind, viz., the
probable death of our mother. '
AUGUSTUS FIELD,
Vicar of Pool Quay, Welsh Pool, Montgomeryshire.
November 1st, 1884.
In a subsequent communication, Mr. Field IlaYS :-
The following extract from my diary is conclusive as to the correct date
of my mother's death.
" Novembel', 1873.
"Thursday, 27th, arrived in London at 5.30 a.m., by train to 70,
Bassington Road. Found mother conscious, &c. ; read, &c., with her at
frequent intervals through the day. K. and A. (my brother and sister)
arrived. Gradually weaker, and at last 5.45 p:m. she passed away."
You will understand my object in giving you these full particulars. I
myself heard (as I thought) my mother mention my brother's name, and
spoke of it to my sister and my aunt. I think they told me that she had men.
tioned his name several times during her last brief illness. She was seized with
paralysis on 'Vednesday, 26th, and her speech became more and more
affected. It was this that made me feel uncertain whether my brother's
name was really mentioned in my h<laring by my mother or not. In conse·
quence of what my aunt and sister said I could have no longer any doubt.
L.-8lO-Ad po-
[The following narrative, which is an interesting parallel tc L.-1588
printed in the last number of the Journal, comes to us from three sources (1)
The Penn Y(m Expres3 \Penn Yan is a town in the State of New York). (2)
Statement of Mr. Curtis, whose wife was present on the occasion; (3) First
hand statement (copied by Mr. Curtis) of Mrs. 0., the mother of the
percipient, who was present on the occasion.]
DOCUMENT I.
From the Penn Yann Express, January 9th, 1867.
DROWNING OF "Ry" AND "DAVIE" ADAMS.
It needs not that we should make the announcement I)f what so agitated
our whole community with grief and horror on Wednesday, and seemed to
fill all hearts and every household with sorrow and mourning. It was, and
has been, the theme of every circle, and everywhere there has been the
same deep, heartfelt expressions of pity and sympathy. Since the death of
President Lincoln there has been no occurrence which has so agitated and
moved our village and the surrounding country.
To our own readers it may be necessary briefly to recapitulate the circum-
436 Journal qf Society! for P8!!c/tic.l Re8care/l. [June, 1885.
stances. On Wednesday afternoon, the 2nd day of January inst., Darius,
aged 11 years, and David, aged 9 years, BOns of Mr. D. W. Adams, together
with a young cumpanion, Charles Tuell, aged about 12 years, went on the ice
of our lake for the purpose of .skating. Merrily they passed along, exchang-
ing greetings with their young friends till they had reached the frozen waters
of the lake, and there, allured as is supposed by the excitement of their
sport, they passed from the solid ice nearest the village at the foot of the
lake, to where the treacherous waters were thinly skimmed over by ice, and
where the springs had left large air-holes. Into one of these the older
brother, "Ry," as he was called, fell, and was rescued by the presence of
mind and intrepidity of his younger brother, little" Davie," who stretched
himself on the ice so that Ry could take hold of his feet, and then Charley
took hold of his hands and pulled Ry out. Chilled with the water with
which his boots were filled and clothes 'saturated, Ry, with his companions, .
started for the eastern shore towards an ice-hut to warm and dry himself. A
caution WIL& spoken by Charley, and IlcarcO had he spoken it when the ice
again gave way and precipitated Ry again in the water. Terrified and sur-
prised at this new calamity, the courage of Ry, and the loving fidelity of
Davie did not forsake them. Intrepidly did the brave and generous little
Davie endeavour to save his belovedbrother, but as he approached him the
treacherous ice gave way, and·he soon sank, while Charley, powerless to save
his young companions, stood by in agonised terror. Bravely did Ry meet the
death which awaited him-gallantly struggling to preserve himself from
sinking, till his frozen hands fell powerless by his side, and he went down
even when help was within a few rods distant. Mr. S. C. Purdy had wit-
nessed the scene from the shore, had heard the agonised shrieks for help of
Charley, and h.J.d almost reached the spot when Ry sank to rise no more.
There is an incident connected with tIllS terrible calamity which is as
mysterious as it is touching. A little cousin of Davie, residing in Cayuga
county, aged 4 years, and who was tenderly attached to him, on Wednesday
last, at about 4 o'clock, was playing with her doll, when she suddenly said-
" Auntie, Davie is drowned." Astonished and terrified, as no allusion had
been made to the little boy, the aunt inquired what Bhe meant; and the
Barne childish and simple answer was returned-" Auntie, Davie is drowned ~"
At eight o'clock a telegram was received announcing the sad event, and the
ever singular words of little "Gussy" were remembered. We oft'er no
explanation of this, but simply record the fact, leaving it for tlle revelations
of the Great Day, when those separated ones shall be united, and all shall
be told to solve the mystery and to acquaint us whether these little ones, in
their guileless innocence, do indeed hear the whispering of the angels.
DOCUMENT II.
9, East 54th Street, New York.
November 20th, 1884.
It has often occurred to me that some members of your Society
might be interested in an incident which has seemed to me to be one of the
most remarkable manifestations of second sight that has ever come to my
knowledge. Your correspondence may have brought you stories yet more
wonderful; and it is possible I attach too much importance to this affair,
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] Journal qf Sociei,/j/01' P8yc/u'cal Re8eal·clt•. 437
because it relates to persons so closely connected with me and my family.
Of the absolute truth of the narrative you may beassured ; nothing reeting 011
human testimony can be more certain to my mind.
The incident I have to relate occurred 18 years ago, the present month.
My wife at the time was making a visit at the house of her sister, about 300
miles from this city, in the central part of the State of New York. Thirty
miles distant a brother resided with his family, among them a son, David,
about 12 years of age.
One afternoon, my wife was sitting with her sister, while a child of the
latter, a girl 3 years of age, was amusing itself with toys in another part of
the room. Suddenly the child ceasedits play and ran to my wife. exclaiming,
"Auntie, Davie's' drowned." Not being attended t.o at once, the child
repeated the words" Davie's drowned." The aunt, thinking she had not
heard correctly, asked the mother what the child said, when"the words were
again repeated. Nothing, however, was thought of the matter at the time,
the mother simply saying that the little one was probably only rel'eating what
it had heard from some one.
A few hours later a telegram was received, announcing that at just about
the time these words were spoken, David, the child's cousin, with a. brother
a yea.r or two older, were drowned while skating 40 miles away.
In this case there was no premonition, no presentiment, no revival of a
slumbering thought. The subject of the clairvoyance was of a tender age.
being old enough to talk. It can hardly have known what death was, and
stillless dreaming, for it is not known that the word had ever been used in
the child's presence.
The incident attracted considerable attention at the time, and a brief
account of it found its way into a local journal. Otherwise, it has never
been made public. You are at liberty to make such use of itas you JIl!LY see
fit.-I am, dear sir, faithfully yours,
CHARLES B. CURTIS.
DOCUMENT III.
I here forward a statement of the incident narrated to you in my letter of
November, and send you in this sheet a copy of the same. The
original, signed by Mrs. 0., I have in my possession. I. also encluse a
slip reprinted from a local newspaper. The slip was reprinted about the date
of the occurrence, within a few days.
The mother writes me that Augusta, now a young lady about 20 years of
age, shrinks from having her name made public, but if necessary she wnI
withdraw her objection. You will appreciate ller feelings, and I need say
no more.
The mother says she could tell me of another of her daughter's presenti-
ments, one relating to a bird. I have written for the particulars, but have as
yet no reply. When I learn to what this last presentiment relates I will, if
I think it important enough, communicate it to you.
Should you think this of sufficient consequence to publish, I will be
obliged if you will send me a copy, as well as one for the lady herself.-I am,
dear sir, faithfully yours,
CHA.RLES B. Ct7RTIS.
New York.
February 6th, 1885.
Digitized by Google
438 Journal of Societ!l for Psycltical Researcl,. [June, 18.'J5.
STATEJlENT.
On the afternoon of January 2nd, 1867, my little daughter, Augusta, aged
3 years, was playing with her dolly, sitting near her aunt, who was spending
the day at my house in Genoa, New York. Her little cousins, Darius and
David Adams, aged 11 and 9 years, to the younger of whom she was tenderly
attached, were living in Penn Yann, New York, 25 miles away. The cousins
had not met since the preceding summer or early autumn.
While busy with her play, the child suddenly spoke and said, "Auntie,
Davie is drowned!" Her father, who was present, and I heard her dis-
tinctly. I answered, •• GUlIsie, what did you say 1" She repeated the words,
" Davie is drowned! " Her aunt, who was not familiar with the childish
accent, said, "GuBBie, I do not understand you" ; when the child'repeated
for the third time. "Auntie, Davie is drowned!" I chanced to look at the
clock, and saw it was jUllt 4.
I immediately turned the conversation, as I did not wish such a painful
thought fastened on the child's mind.
I cannot recall that any allusion had been made to the boys that day,
neither was I aware that my daughter even knew the meaning of the word
dr()'!oned. She simply uttered the words without apparent knowledge of their
import.
That evening a telegram came from my brother saying, "My little boys.
Darius and Davie, were drowned at 4 o'clock to-day while skating on Kenka
Lake."
E. M. O.
Kings Ferry, New York.
L.-812-Ad P.
Statement by the Rev. W. J. Ball, M.A., Cambridge.
During my college days I had a very dear and intimate chunl, R. F.
Dombrain. We used to walk together,read together, pray together, and would
have thought it wrong to keep any secret from each other. We hoped to go
together into the foreign mission field, but my friend was ready to go before
I was, and it was while he was in London making arrangements about going
abroad that he was seized with a very bad fever, and his life for some time
despaired of. At last he recovered and returned to Dublin, where I saw
him several times. He was not quite restored to health, but I hoped he would
soon be so. This was the state of things when I went down to the County
Limerick, in the spring of 1853. I received a few letters from my friend
which told me ofgradually improving health. I was busily occupied about
my mission work at the village of Doon, .and felt perfectly at ease about my
dear friend's recovery. A few days had elapsed without any tidings reaching
me, when on the morning of the 14th of April, I had the most vivid dream I
remember ever to have seen. I seemed to be walking with young Dombrain,
amidst some beautiful scenery, when suddenly I was brought to a waking
condition by a sort e;f light appearing before me. I started up in my bed,
and saw before me, in his ordinary dress and appearance, my friend, who
seemed to be passing from earth towards the light above. He seemed to
give me one loving smile, and I felt that his look contained an expression of
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] JOlt1'llal qf Societ/Ilor P8ychical Re8earch. 439
affectionate separation and farewell. Then I leaped out of bed, and cried with
a loud voice, " Robert, Robert," and the vision was gone.
In the house there was sleeping a young servant boy, whose name was
also Robert. Be came running into my room, saying that my loud cry h'ld
awakened him from sound sleep. and that he thought I was ill. The whole
scene was so impressed upon my mind that I felt the death of my friend just
as really as if I had been by his bedside, and seen him pass away. I had
looked at my wa.tch and found the time 3 minutes past 5. I knew that at
that moment my friend's spirit had passed from his body. I could think of
nothing else. .A class of Scripture readers cam'il to me at 10 o'clock that
morning. I told them Icould not speak to them of the appointed subject,
but must tell them what had occulTtld, and for a long time I lectured them
entirely on the subject of the future state, and the separation of the soul
from the body. During the whole of the day the same sad gloom weighed
down my mind, which I should have felt had I been with my friend at his
deathbed. 1 wrotE.' to my sister asking for l>articulars, and I wished to
know the exact time the death had taken place. Never once did the slightest
doubt cross my mind that my friend had died.
The following morning I received a. letter from my sister stating that
for a few days Mr. Dombrain had not been so well, and that at 3 minutes
past 5 in tho morning he had quietly passed away from this world. Since
then I have very often mentioned tlle circumstance to friends, and the deep
impression made by the event can never pass from my mind. I lately wrote
to my sister asking her to tell me what she remembered about the dream. Her
reply is dated 17th July, 1884; she says: "I have not a distinct remembrance
of the dream. I have heard you allude to it from time to time, and feel quite
cQnfident of its reality."-S. P. BALL, 12, Upper Leeson-street. Dublin.
[This passage from Miss Ball's original letter is in my pOBBession. Mr.
Ball has had no other similarly impressive dreams.-F. W. B. MYEDs.]
L.-813-Ad P!-(Borderland).
[The following case was communicated to me verbally by M.--
who writes the narrative in the third person. He occupies a high public
position and does not wish to give his name or to procure other attestations.
French is not his native language.-F. W. H. MYERS.]
Londres, Ie 28 Octo/YI'e, 1884.
M. --, actuellement A.ge de soixante-cinq ans, occupant une haute
position en Roumanie, a vecu ses premieres quinze annees aupres de ses
parents, passant au moins six mois chaque annee a la campagne, dans un
pays de forets seculaires et de montagnes legendaires. n fut envoy. tres
jeulle en France, pour ses etudes universitaires. et a. l'A.ge de vingt-deux ans
il s'en retournait dans son pays.
Son pere, qui occupait une haute position dans la magistrature, voulut
lui faire embrasser la carriere administrative, lorsqu' 11. l'ulliversite de Tassy
s'ouvrit un concours pour une chaire de professeur. M. -- se presenta
et obtint cette place, pour laquelle il se sentait plus de gollt que pour 1&
Digitized by Google
440 ,Journal of Sociefy for P8!lcMcal Re8earch. [June, 1~.
carriere administrative, maIgre que cela 1'obligeait de s'eloigner de quatre-
cent kilometres de sa famille.
Pendant les cinq ann'es qu'il a occupe la chaire de professeur lI. Tassy,
il allait, regulierement, deux fois par an, passer avec ses parents quinze
joura aux fetes de PAque, et trois mois aux vacances d'automne, du 15
J uillet au 15 Octobre.
Au printemps de 1'annee 1844, apres avoir passe, comme d'habitude.
quinze joura dans 180 famille, il s'en retourna a son poste, apres avoir quitM
son pere, alora A.g' de cinquante·cinq ans, tout-a.fait remit d'un refroidisse-
ment dont il avait sowrert pendant 1'hiver.
Arrive au mois'de Juillet, aussitOt 180 cloture des coura, il partit pour
Bucarest. n arrivait lI. la maison Ii six heures du matin et alla droit a la
chambre de son pere, qu'il trouva faisant sa toilette du matin. n Ie trouva.
tellement change qu'il eut de la peine lI. Ie reconnattre-maigri et vieilli.
Peu de joura apres Ie vieillard fut pris d'un violent frisson qui Ie mit au lit,
et Ie medecin d6clara Ie CM grave, disant qu'on pouvait lui porter quelque
soulagement mais pas Ie guerir, car les poumons 'OOent deja attaques.
Des ce moment M. -- s'etablit au chevet du malade, alternant la sur-
veillance avec sa mere et une religieuse garde malade.
La nuit du 26 au 27 Novembre, 1844, il avait veilla aupres du malade
jusqu' Ii 4 heures du matin; il n'avait pas dormi depuis deux joura, et il
eOOt exMnu' de fatigue et d'anxieM. Se sentant accable de sommeil, il alla
dans la chambre d'a coM, reveilla la religieuse, 180 priant de Ie remplacer
aupres du malade, afin qu'il puisse aller prendre un peu de repos, et il a.lla.
dans sa chambre, qui ctait a tres grande distance, tout-a-fait a 1'a.utre
extremitC de 180 maison. lA, il se jetta tout habilla sur son lit, un livre a180
main; et a.pres quelques pages de I~ture Ie livre lui tomba de la main et il
s'endormit profondement. Pendant Ie plus fort de son sommeil il se sentit.
comme trel! fortement secoue et appeM par son nom. II se reveilla en
SurBaut, tout effra.ye, sauta de son lit, se dirigeant vera 180 porte, a.ya.nt devant
lui comme une ombre, qui disparu des qu'il fut dans 1'entree. II traversa
Ie grand salon, tout 1'appartemont attenant. Arrive a 180 chambre de son
pere, il trouva 180 garde malade debout sur Ie seuil de 180 porte, lui barrant Ie
-passage. Son,pare venait d'expirer au moment meme.
L'impression de ce reveil est reste tollement vive dans 1'esprit de M. - -
qu'il n'en a ja.mais parle sans ajouter, "Ce n'etait certainement pas la
realitC, mais pour stlr c'6tait plus qu'un rave."
Quatre ana plus tard, en 1'a.nnee 1849, M. -- habitait Constantinople;
il etait proscrit et 1'entr'e de son pays lui eOOt interdite. Sa mere, qui etait
a Bucarest, s"tait d6cidee d'aller s'etablir aupres de lui; elle n'attendait
plus que 1'ouverture de la navigation du Danube, qui 0. lieu generalement
vera Ie mois de Mars. Elle avait Mja a.nnonOO ason fils Ie nom du bateau
de la Compagnie du Loyd Autrichien sur lequel elle deva.it s'embarquer a.
Galatz, et Ie 8 Avril ello devait arriver a Constantinople. Ces bateaux
arrivaient toujours dans la Corne-d'or les mardis, vera lea six heures du
matin.
Le 7 Avril M. -- passa la soiree avec deux de ses amis et parents, et ron
decida que Ie lendemain les deux amis viendraient Ie chercher pour aller toua
l,es trois recevoir la dame a bordo Les deux amis arriverent Ie matin a.
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] Journal qf Societ!l for Psychical Research. 441
1'heure convenue chez M. -- Grand fut leur etonnement lorsque celui-ci
leur dit qu'il etait inutile d'aller au bateau parceque sa mere venait de
mourir. Ses amis crurent d'abord qu'il avait re~lU des nouvelles, mais ayant
reflechi qu'il n'y avait pas pu avoir eu des lettres depuis une semaine, car il
n'y avait eu depuis aucun arrivage-a cette epoque Ie teIegraphe etait chose
completement inconnue dans ces parages-ils furent inquiets sur l'etat de
l' esprit de leur ami, qui persistait a. leur dire avec la plus grande assurance
que sa mere etait morte dans la nuit meme. M. -- venait d'avoir, apres
s'etre endormi, Ie meme reveil, precisement avec les memes circonstances,
que dans la nuit du 26 au 27 Novembre, 1844, lors de 130 mort de son pere.
Le bateau suivant, arrive Ie 15 Avril,. apportait des lettres annonlj)ant que
la mere de M. -- avait succombC dans la nuit du 7 au 8 Avril ala suite
d'un acces de fievre bilieuse, apres une courte maladie de deux jours.
L.-814-Ad pa
On the morning of the 18th July, 1874, at 2 o'clock I woke IIp with a
loud sigh from the following dream or vision. It seemed like a succession
of dissolving views. First I saw in a glimmer of light, a railway train and
the puff of its engine, as it were, in the corner of the room ; I thought
" What's going on up there 1" "Travelling 1" " I wonder if any of us are
travelling, and I dreaming of it." Then a voice of some one, unseen,
seemed to me to answer ,. No ! something quite different." I felt unwilling to
see it. Then I saw, behind my head, my twin-brother William, the upper
half of him, lying as it were half up, leaning back; eyes and mouth half
open. H is chest moved for a moment co,nvulsively ; he raised his right arm ;
then bent forward; muttering "I suppose I should move out of this." I
felt somehow glad that he moved. Then I saw hinl lying flat on the ground
at my side, the chimney of an engine behind him. I called out "Oh that
will strike him." He seemed then leaning up on his elbow, startled. and say-
ing "Is it the train, the train 1" His right shoulder then shaking, and re-
verberating as if struck rapidly from behind. He fell back ; his eyes rolled,
an arm was thrown up. Then something like panelling of wood passed by,
and the whole went off with a swish, leaving what seemed a faint gleam of
moonlight in the distance. Next,there appeared before me in very brightlight
a compartment of a railway carriage,and in the window of this a young clergy-
man I had only seen once, the minister of the district where my brother had
been residing. A porter went up to him and seemed to ask, " Have you seen
anything of. • 1" Mr. J. seemed to answer" No!" And the porter
ran off. After all this I saw the full figure of my brother at my side, standing.
He put his hand over his face and began slowly to move away. I seemed to
call out "Is he going 1" The voice that seemed to speak always from over
my head answered" Yes" ; and then seemed to moved along over my
brother's head. I saw then a pale face as of one figure and the back of another
ushering him, as it were, along.
I then woke, as I have said, with a loud sigh; and my husband, waking
up with the start, asked me what was the matter. I felt very unwilling at
the time to repeat what I had .seen, and only saying I had been dreaming
Digitized by Coog
442 Journal qf Soeiet!; for PS,Ilckical Researek. LJune, iSS!).
about a railway and asking him "what was that light 1" though there was
none in the room. I fell asleep at once, tired out.
At this time I had no anxiety about my brother; but a few days after this
dream my husband received a letter from that saine clergyman, and telllllg
of my brother being killed by a railway train on the night of the 18th July,
and that the fatal accident must have occurred about half-past 9 or 10
o'clock. This clergyman was in the train that killed my brother!
It would seem that my brother had started in the cool of the evening
from the village where he had been residing, with the intention of walking
to a town about 15 miles off i that he had chosen, possibly as the nearest road,
the railway line; that he had felt tired and heated, taken off his boots, lain
down on the sloping bank, very likely dozed off; and, startled and confused
by the rapid rush of the approaching train, tried, by a convulsive effort, to
get up, and was struck while rising by some projecting part of the train. It
was on the head and the right shoulder that it struck him. I may add that
I retired that evening in a strongly nervous state, and while undressing had
the sensation as if something or some presence was in the room! Perhaps I
Should add that the scene of the fatal accident to my brother was some 400
miles distant from my own home at the time.
The following is from Professor Sidgwick ;-
I had a personal interview with the writer of the above narrative, Mrs.
S., and her husband, in April, 1884, and learnt that it was exactly
taken from the account in a diary written the day, or the day after, the news
came. Before this she had just mentioned the dream to her husband, but
had not described it. She desired not to think of it. She is, however, quite
sure that it did not grow more definite in recollection afterwards.
Mrs. S. cannot regard it exactly as a dream. though she woke up
from it. She never had a series of scenes in a dream at any other time.
They were introduced by a voice in a whisper, not recognised as her brother's.
He had sat on the bank as he appeared in the dream. The engine she
saw behind him had a chimney of peculiar shape, such as she had not at that
time seen i and Mr. S. informed her when he came back that engines
of this kind were used in the place where her brother was-Victoria. (Mr.
and Mrs. S. were in Tasmania at the time.) She had no reason to
think that any conversation between the porter and the clergyman actually
occurred. The persons who seemed to lead her brother away were not
recognised by her, and she only saw the face of one of them.
The strongly nervous state that preceded the dream was quite unique in
lIrs. S.'s experience. But as it appeared that, according to her recollection,
it commenced about 8.30, with the occurrence of a small domestic annoy-
ance, and therefore, at least an hour before the accident took place, it must
be regarded as of no import.ance evidentially. Mr. S. recalls Mrs. 8.'s
nervousness at supper about 9.30. The feeling of a presence in the room
was also quite unique. Mrs. S. never h&d anything like a hallucination.
Mr. S. confirms his wife's having said to him at the time of the dream,
" What is that light 1"
They have special reasons of a private nature (which were mentioned to
me) for thinking that her brother's last thoughts were likely to be of her.
Digitized by Google
June, 1885.] JOI,rnal Qf Society/01' Paycltical Reaearcl,. 443
Mrs. S. had never been aware of any community of sensation with him.
She has had dreams of other relatives, which there is reason to think coin-
cided ,vith their death or illness.
The above is written out from notes made by me at the time of the
conversation.-HENRY SIDGWICK.
L.-1038-Ad pn
From Miss Kate R.
London, Octobel·, 1884.
I was on a visit at Colnbrook, in Buckinghamshire, in 1878, and one
night when I went to bed, and while yet fully awake, I felt an influence as
if someone was in the room. I sat up to see what it was, and saw my
grandmother, in the plaid cloak she usually wore, leaning upon my mother's
arm. I looked round the room to see whether the vision could have arisen
from any reflection from the mirrors in the room, and while doing so I saw
the figures walk slowly round the room and disappear. I afterwards ascer-
tained that my grandmother died. in London about the time I had seen the
apparition in Buckinghamshire.
KATE R.
[Miss R. is an invalid and I could not see her when I called. Her
mother, Mrs. R., explained to me at a personal interview tll&t she was herself
nursing her mother in London at the time of the death. Her mother had
been an invalid for years, but there was no special reason to expect her death
at this tinle; and Miss R. being absent from home, did not even know that
her grandmother was worse in health than usual.
Miss R. writes that she has had no other hallucination. She
adds that the phantasm was seen "soon aftergetting to bed, about 10 p.m." ;
and that "on my return homp, I heard that my grandmother had passed
away just about the time of my vision."-FRANK PODMORE.]
Appended is a letter from Mrs. R.
October 30th, 1884.
On receipt of your letter relative to the hour of my mother's death, I
made inquiries of those who remembered the time, and I find she died nearer
to 12 o'clock p.m. The reason my daughter mentioned 10 as the time of the
vision only depended upon the usage of the family she was visiting, who
generally retired at 10. Her memory could not serve her to fix the time
exactly; bellides, in cases of visitors being in the house, the family remained
up later. The exact time of the appearance clnnot be noted now, only that
on reflection my daughter thinks it would be later than 10. Besides, she
would, perhaps, have remained up a long time in her room, conversing with
the lady of the house, before going to bed, as was often the habit. It WII&
between 7 and 8 years ago that this experience occurred, and my daughwr
cannot fix exact times and hours; but, at the time, she thinks her vision
corresponded with the time of the death. My daughter is very sorry that a
more definite account cannot be given of the circumstances. The facts can
be depended upon, but the hours and times have entirely slipped our
memories.
Digitized by Google
444 Jo-ul'llnl qf Somet!llor P8!lcMcal Re8enrclz. [June, 188.5.
My daughter suggests that she was 80 greatly attached to hergrandmother
that, in 80 continually thinking of her, the vision might have come through
the influence of strong imagination; but it impressed itself upon her mind at.
the time as a real presence, and she told me about it on her return to toWll.
She did not expect her grandmother's death just then, as she had been ailing
for years, and the death occurred rather suddenly.
JANE M. R.
[The following is a letter from Miss R.'s friend, Mrs. F. She is not
explicit as to tho vision having been mentioned before the news of the death
arrived; but we presume she means to imply that it was, as the question was
definitely asked].
April 8t", 1885.
Dear Sir,-Mrs. R. has sent your note to me, asking me to reply to it;
but it is really little 1 can tell you in reference to the matter, beyond that
Miss R. felt convinced that her grandmother was dead before the news
reached us, from a dream or vision (whichever you like to call it) that she
had had. I cannot give you her words as she told it to me. The fact that Miss
R. had a vivid dream in reference to the death of her grandmother, did not
strike me as anything but natural. She was always deeply attached to her,
and doubtless had gone to bed with an anxious mind, knowing that her
grandmother was ill.
I am sorry I cannot help you further in the matter, it being quite out of
my ptYWer to do 80.-1 am, faithfully yours,
C. B. F.
L.-I041-Ae po
[We print the following narrative, which is sent to us by the percipient,
a clergyman, known to a friend of Mr. Podmore's, as an interesting parallel
to an experience of Count Gonemys', given in the Journal for March last.
We are not allowed to print any names..]
April 14th, 1885.
In March, 187-, I went to the curacy of A., and had been, as well as I
remember, about a month there, when the following happened. I am a
native of a town in the North of England, and in my childhood had a friend
of my own age whom I will call C. Our friendship lasted till manhood,
though our circumstances and walks of life were very different, and I had
always a great deal of influence over him, insomuch that he would allow
himself to be restrained by rot when he would not by others. He became,
towards his 20th year or so, rather addicted to drink, but I always had the
same friendship for him, and would have done anything to serve or help him.
In 187- his family were living at X, [near Z.], and as all my otherold friends
had long left the neighbourhood of Z, my native town, I always used to go to
them whenever I visited that part, as I was and am still on sufficiently
friendly terms with them to go at any time without notice. On the day in
question I had been visiting some of the parishioners, and having made an
end of this, came to a cross-road of two of the lanes near the church,
and not only was I not thinking of my friend, whom I had not heard of for
Digitized by Google
·Tune, 1885.] Joltrnal qtSociety/or Psychical Research. 445
some years, but I distinctly remember what I was thinking of, which was
whether to go home to my lodgings for my tea, turning to the left, or
whether to trespass on the hospitality of a lady who lived to the right of the
crossing. When thus standing in doubt, a kind of shudder passed through
me, accompanied by a most extraordinary feeling, which I can only compare
to that of a jug of cold water poured on the nape of the neck and running
down the spine; and as this passed off. though I cannot sa.y I heard. a voice
I was distinctly conscious of the words, " Go to Z by this evening's train"
being said in my ear. There was no one at the time within l00yards of me.
I was not very flush of money just then, and could not well afford the ex-
pense, besides not wishing to absent myself from duty so soon after taking it
up. But it seemed so distinct that I almost made up my mind to obey it,
but on announcing the fact to my landlady, to whom, of course, I could not
tell my true reason, she remonstrated so eamestly tha.t, coupling this with
the affairs of my duty, &c., I did conclude to disregard it. I could not,
however, settle to anything, read, write, or sit in comfort, till the time was
elapsed when I could have caught the train, when the uneasy, restless feeling
gradually went off, and in a few hours I was ready to laugh at myself. Three
or four days after I received the sad news that my frier.d had, on that day,
gone down home from London, had been taken ill, and two days afterwardli
had, in a fit of temporary insanity, put an end to his life. I have no doubu
in my own mind that had I obeyed the intimation I might have saved his
life, for I must have gone to their house, no other in the neighbourhood
being available, and had I found him in the condition in which he was you
may be very sure he would ne\'er have got out of arm's length of me until
all danger was over. I have ever since reproached myself with it, and have
made up my mind that should I ever have such another experience I will do
what is directed, seem it never so absurd or difficult.
[In reply to inquiries the narrator adds :-]
I was in health just as usual, no better and no worse. I had good health
all the time I was at A, and in particular I never have suffered from indiges-
tion since I was a child. I have not had a similar experience at any other
time.
I have never at any other time had such a physical sensation, 01' such a
sensation of a voice; and nothing has ever happened to me which would
. lead at allsatisfactol"ily to the conclusion that any abnormal phenomena were
present. I have ha4 presentiments, as I suppose most men have.
L.-I044-Ad pn
Extract from an article in Church Bells, for March 20th, 1885, by the
Rev. J. Foxley, Vicar of Market Weighton, Yorkshire.
There is now living in the parish where we write-she was at church last
Sunday-a widow now in her 78th year, but in full possession of all her
faculties, who has more than once told us, with all the fulness of detail, and
subject to all the cross-questioning which we could devise, how she was at
service some miles from home during her father's last illness, and that one
Digitized by Coog
446 JOIl1'nal qf Societ!/ for P8!lcMcal Re8earch. [June, 1885.
Thursday she felt unable to go on with her work, and after a while, about
1 o'clock, saw a vision of her father; that it turned out afterwards that her
father died at that very time, and that just before his death he had been
speaking of her; that a lettt'r sent to inform her of his being worse failed
to reach her: and that though she knew he was ill she was not aware that
he was in immediate danger; but that she was 80 impressed with her vision
that she set off home the Saturday following, and "'learnt on the way that
her father was dead, and that his funeral was to take place that very day, so
that she arrived only just in time. Indeed, we must confeBS that the evidence
for "apparitions" at the time of departure is so strong that we cannot but
accept it as more probably true than false, leaving, however, the philosophical
explanation of what an "apparition" may really be to the future. We have
verified one subordinate part of the above narrative; for by reference to the
parishregister we find that the burial took place on the 31st of May, 1823;
and as the Sunday letter for that year was E, which is the letter for the
1st of June, the burial turns out to have been, as stated, on a Saturday.
Our informant was then, as shown by the register of hor baptism, 25
years old.
[In sending the above Mr. Foxley writes on October 24th, 1884 :-]
The enclosed cutting from Ohw'ch Bells has the advantage of having been
read over to Mrs. Pollard, and accepted by her as a faithful statement of what
occurred to her. She was buried here, February 14th, 1884. She could read
well. The" 1 o'clock" mentioned was in the day-time. I recollect her
mentioning dinner-time. The place was some out-building, I think a summer-
house, but of that I am not certain. . . • She always told the story
under the impreBSion that she was wide awake.
[In another letter Mr. Foxley adds :--]
I cannot recollect whether she said she mentioned the apparition to any-
one befol'e the news of the death arrived. But she told me that the a.pparition
was one cause, if not the cause, of her asking leave to go home to see her
father.
I cannot say in whose service she was.
All I can add is, that I cross-questioned Mrs. Pollard repeatedly, in
every way I could think of, and that I could not shake her story. But then
she may have told it 80 many times that it had become truth to her, like.
George the Fourth's presence at the battle of Waterloo.
L.-I045--Ad pa
From MiBB C--, known to Mr. F. Podmore (written in the
autumn of 1884).
When I was about 10 or 12 years old I was sitting one evening, towards
dusk, at the piano practising, when I saw an old lady, the grandmother of
one of my schoolfellows, enter the room. I was in the habit of seeing her
* At a wayside inn, now a cottage, at Arras, on the Beverley-road, about three
mil81 fro~ Market WeightoD, but in the parish•.,....J. F.
Digitized by Google
June, 188..'1.] JOllrnal qf Societ!l/or PS!lckical Research. 447
frequently and recogni'led her perfectly. She was very old, and to the best
of my belief had never entered our house at all, so that I was greatly
surprised to see her. I heard the next day she had died on the evening I saw
hor.
I never had any other hallucination.
MARY C.
November 6th, 1884.
In conversation Miss C. explained that she did not actually see the figur&
enter the room. She looked up suddenly and found it standing by her side.
The figure was in ordinMy indoor dress, with, as she particulaTly noticed, a.
larg'3 white cap, of muslin and lace, such as the old lady usually wore. The
figure vanished suddenly as she looked at it. The room, though dusk, was
not dark, and she was able distinctly to recognise the features.
Mis~ C. cannot recollect whether she told anyone of what she had seen.
She probably told the friend from whom she heam next day that the old lady,
her friend's grandmother, was dead. The time of the death she does not.
'remember.
Miss C. knew the old lady well ; she was in the habit of running in to see
her nearly every day. But at this distance of time she cannot racollect.
whether the old lady's death was expected.
Miss C. has lost sight ofher friend, and can get no further particulars.
F.P.
[The incident probably occurred some 25 years ago.-F. P.]
L.-I046-Ad po
From Mrs. B., known to Mr. Podmore and other members of the
Committee.
October 30th, 1884.
When I was about 16 years old [probably about 20 years ago.-F.P.] my
father came down to breakfast one morning, and, after saying he had been
awake a long time, he said, .. and about 5 OT 6" (I forget the exact time) "I
saw old Mr. --; he came and stood by the bed a minute or two, and then
went." In the course of the day we hoam of the death of this old gentleman,
of whose illness we had previously known, but whose death we had not
anticipated, as it was not thought his complaint was one likely to cause death
On inquiry, we learnt that he had died at the hour that my father had said
he had had a visit from him.
My fathoT was a merry, strong-minded man, with a scientific tum of
mind and a great scorn of superstition. He is, alas I dead now some years,
and I don't think we any of us thought more of the circumstance than tllat
it was odd, but I remembered it.
[In answer to a request that she would allow her name to bo printed,
Mrs. B. says:-]
I quite see all the reasons you give, but I have really good reasons for the
request I make, though you lllay truly say that I will tell the story and give
my name to anyone who cares privately to ask it.
Digitized by Google
448 JOlIl'nal(!f Society lor P8.lIcltical Re8earch. [JllDe, 1885.
MR. MOHINI'S EVIDENCE.
We ha\"e received the following remarks from Mr. Mohini M.
Chatterji, in reference to the report of his speech at the last General
Meeting, which appears at p. 422 :-
" On looking over the enclosed proof, I notice an important omission in
it. Besides what is given there I said in effect: The facts mentioned by
Mr. Hodgson were beyond my personal knowle(lge; as to the interpretation
of the facts I did not accept Mr. Hodgson's opinion. But I declined going
into the subject, as the Council of the Society for Psychical Research had
practically prejudged the case by declaring adherence to Mr. Hodgson's con-
clusions, without hearing the other side. No opportunity had been given
to all those who were affected by the Report to examine it before it was
made public. Whatever might now be said would not have an unprejudiced
hearing."
We gladly give Mr. Mohini the opportunity of explaining his
position more fully than is done in our Report of his speech. But we
feel bound to point out that what he says involves a complete mis-
apprehension of the facts of the case.
The Council of the Society for Psychical Research has expressed no
Qpinion whatever. The Committee appointed (under the old constitution
of the Society) to investigate the phenomena haa as yet made no Report,
and has, as the Chairman said at the ;l\Ieeting, only arrived at certain
general conclusions. These may be briefly stated as follows :-
(1) That the letters which Madame Coulomb asserts that she received
from Madame Blavatsky are genuine, and the phenomena referred
to therein parts of an elaborate fraud and conspiracy.
(2) That a strong presumption is thus raised against th~ genuineness of
other marvellous phenomena, put forward in connection with,
and in support of Theosophic doctrine; and
(3) That after examining the evidence for these other phenomena they
find no part of it strong enough to overbear this presumption.
These conclusions could not be materially affected by any explana-
tion which Mr. Mohini might offer of the discrepancies between his
evidence and that of others, to which Mr. Hodgson referred.
We may further point out, in reference to Mr. Mohini's statement
that no hearing had been given to "the other side," that Mr. Hodgson
is in no sense an advocate against Theosophy, but a member of the
Committee who went out to India to conduct on the spot an investigation
which it was impossible to carry out satisfactorily at this distance; and
of whose impartiality and open-mindedness-and complete neutrality
at the outset of the investigation-it was impossible for the Committee
to entertain the slightest doubt.
Digitized by Google
