{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_p_nde_3051.html","mytitle":"Mary P NDE 3051","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary P NDE 3051  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1082  Mary P NDE  3051  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a small hospital away from my parents and very concerned for myself. They could not take me to surgery and I have a rare blood type that they did not have on hand. It seemed like when I would pass I was in the most beautiful place with green, a river, and all these people were so glad to see me. I did not know anyone who had died in my family at that time. The person that said he was waiting on me was wearing a straw hat, bib overalls with a white handkerchief in the pocket and had the most amazing blue eyes. Also, other people there were helping me. It was so peaceful there that I could have stayed very easily but I was begging them that I had a husband and a little boy to take care of and I couldn't stay. He said okay but not sure, your body can hold you.

I would wake up in the hospital bed convulsing, I would slip back to the same place with the peaceful people, and we would go through the same thing. Not sure how many times I went back and forth but the last time I heard the nurses say there is no pulse and no heartbeat, we need to call her husband. I was immediately able to talk and said please don't call my husband he has to go to work this morning. They looked like I had shot them and said I had really given them a scare. For five years, I couldn't talk to anyone about this but had such a feeling of peace about life and death I know now that it is a choice and we are here for certain reasons. Two years ago my brother blew up a 1920's picture of my Grandma and Grandpa on horseback, he died when my mother was only twelve years old, and he was the man helping me on the other side.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    10/17/1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     hemorrhaging and miscarriage  Other 'I could hear the nurses saying no pulse, no heart beat we need to call her husband'.  Hemorrhage, fighting for my life and in convulsive state.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All the time until the last time and when I was able to hear them talking.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      All the time until the last time and when I was able to hear them talking.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed very fast to me but I guess this had been going on all night and when I came out of it, it was about 4:00 or 5:00 am.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Probably the colors of where I went were the most beautiful green that I have never seen again. Or before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I think they read my thoughts I don't remember actually speaking and I did not know them until I saw the picture almost forty years later. They knew my plight and they were trying to help me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The most beautiful green with trees and a river (calm) running through it.  Thought all these people probably 12 were gathered by it in reference to me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      It was a fight for my life and I felt that I had to work very hard.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     A very peaceful feeling about death and why we are here.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     I have not been a real member of any orthodox religion. I feel that I pray to God for everything and about everything but I do feel we should not pray for ourselves, I was not allowed to live for me, only for my family, they had no one else.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I have not been a real member of any orthodox religion. I feel that I pray to God for everything and about everything but I do feel we should not pray for ourselves, I was not allowed to live for me, only for my family, they had no one else.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we do not have families by accident; we have a purpose to help each other and are given our immediate family to care for above our selves. I know when it is my time to go they will still be there for me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   When this happened I was very young and people sure did not talk about such things.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Sometime ago I did have a dream about the troops going into Iraq in the 1980's I was watching CNN in the dream. The part where the troops were marching and the music. Along with the troops was a figure marching with them in a black hat and top coat, when he turned around he was skeletal and charred. He said our troops should not go into Bagdad they should go through the deserts and set their pits on fire take Bagdad and they will give Kuwait for peace. I even sent that letter to CNN. Not sure but that is kind of what happened.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The fact that we have a choice and we also have bodies that can only hold us for a time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My husband about five years later and with different family members from time to time. He is very hard knocks sort of person and not sure he really believed me but tolerated listing to me. I think it scared him.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because I was allowed to live and raise my children and be a wife of forty-three years now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I just have that peace of mind that it happened and I was able to fill my duties as a mother and a wife.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, life is to be lived for other's and everyone we are in contact with is not an accident we are here on this earth for a purpose and I am not clear exactly who or what that is but I know we are responsible for each other.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I have at times wondered if anyone else has the experiences that I did and am very glad this is coming out in the open. I am sure we would all want to take better care of each other if we all had that experience.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_p_nde_3051.html