{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_r_adc.html","mytitle":"Mary R ADC 31023","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary R ADC 31023  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary R ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification ADC  						833  Mary R ADC  31023  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My grandmother was admitted to the hospital the weekend of my son's 5th birthday.  I was concerned, but she was tough, and had been hospitalized before.  On a few occasions, my family was told she wouldn't recover, but to the doctor's amazement she would get better and come home.  I had also been scheduled for surgery in a few days.  I have to say I was a little hesitant to keep my surgery scheduled, but the whole family encouraged me to have it. 

I do not remember what time of day any of this occurred, but I can dig out the medical records if need be.   

The day of my surgery, I went to visit my grandmother about an hour before my admission time.  She did not look good.  She had labored breathing, she couldn't talk, but tried to squeeze my hand, so I'm sure she heard me.  I did tell her that I had to have surgery, so my spirit would not be far from her, and I would come to visit her after I was released from the hospital in a couple days. When I left her I felt sad, but still felt that she would pull out of this.  Again, she had come back from numerous 'close calls.'

Directly after my visit, I admitted myself into the hospital.  My surgery was quite a few hours away yet.  They had to run antibiotics directly into my blood stream before the surgery; I believe it was two 40 ml bags. At least an hour had to elapse before the surgery to make sure all the antibiotics were working full force. At this point, I was anxious about my surgery and worried about my grandma.  So time seemed to slow down.   

Eventually I was rolled in for my operation.  I do remember the operating room, then that was it.  Until, I heard a voice.  I heard my grandmother's voice and within a few seconds, I saw her standing next to me.  I was sitting on the edge of a bed.  Here, you should understand that my grandmother had an amputated leg.  During our meeting, the first thing that struck me was she had both legs.  Then I noticed her hair was thicker and blacker than it had been in the last 5 or 6 years.  If I had to guess, I would now say she looked like she was in her 40's or possibly 50's. 

She preceded to tell me that she was great, but her body was dead.  She also stressed to me that she had limited time with me so 'listen up'.  She stated to me that an 'all knowing' part of her soul entered her when her spirit passed out of the body.  And, to help me with grieving she was going to give me as much information as she felt I could understand, in as much time as she was allowed.  I do not remember it all, and out of fear, it took me years to talk about it.  So here is what she told me...

She likened the soul to a 'puzzle cube' I believe she meant a rubric cube.  The cube was the whole soul.  Each side was a section of our soul, each space was a learning experience required for each section of the soul.  As she explained it, each section of the soul touched a different dimension, and would continue returning to that dimension until all the spaces of learning were completed.  Then that dimensional level would not repeat, and your soul would work on the next section.  I know it is confusing, I do not still understand it all.  She also said that only a portion of your complete spirit was housed in the human body with each reincarnation.  It was directly connected to your 'core' soul.  When your 'human' portion of soul would learn, it would directly impact the 'core' soul.  She also alluded to the fact that a human body could sometime hold more than 'human' portion of a soul connected to different 'core' soul.  This was more common when the earth was less populated.  Each soul yearns to learn and complete its lessons, so 'human' vessels would be shared.  Once the 'puzzle' of the soul was competed your whole spirit would remain intact with all the knowledge it collected, it would not have to return to a vessel, and would live in the presence of God forever.  It is so much information I can't remember all she said at this time.  But, I will say she alluded to the fact that there were other 'vessels' of learning for our soul other than those here on earth.  The other striking comment was that she was in contact with my core soul and I would from time to time feel her presence because our 'learning' portion of our soul is connected to the 'core' soul.

It is complicated, I know. So I will leave it here with her words of enlightenment.  I can say she was a staunch catholic, so some of her explanations surprised me.

At the end of the encounter, she hugged me and cackled.  She said her goodbye for now, and stated she was excited to return to her 'core' soul.  That although she wasn't a completed soul yet, the time in 'heaven' where the 'core' soul resided is amazing. 

It felt like seconds, and I was waking up to see my sister sitting next to my bed.  I could see she was upset, and before she told me about my grandmother's death, I told her I already knew grandma had died.   

I had tried to push some of this to the back of my mind, trying to rationalize it as a dream. Until years later, I heard a program on the radio.  It talked about Physicists mathematically proving 11 or 12 dimensions.  And, her words flooded back.  And to this day, I only told a select few friends and family members about her visit. I am not a scientist, and at the time knew very little about physics.  I know more now, but it is still a rudimentary knowledge.  I believe she contacted me, I believe what she said, even if I don't understand it all.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 1998....have to find the exact date.

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?     Slight sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Asleep

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Younger stronger, wearing clothes similar in style to what she wore here.  She did glow in a certain way.  But it is hard to explain this.  It was more a glow within rather than without.  It was more a conveyance.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I communicated much of her words above.  And, I'm sure I missed something.  She sounded like she always did in life.  Her voice was clear, as clear as two people chatting over morning coffee.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     very close.  I helped to take care of her the last 9 years of her life.  My other grandmother passed away when I was 5 so this grandmother was my "main" grandparent.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was dimly lit light surrounding us, it went away immediately after she left.  It was the only source of light in the room

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Mixed, She was elated to be going back.  She was worried about my emotional state.  Confident that I would be ok.  Sad that the human condition had to endure such sorrow though grief, but also glad about the process.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Just the information she gave.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   No Response   at the time I was lutheran, still am, but I am not a "practicing" church goer.  I had limited exposer to "alternate" forms of belief.

What is your religion now?      No Response   I am still a current lutheran/christian.  I do however have a much more open view of soul and spirit.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I've opened my mind up to more than just the book of the bible to explain our existence.

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Growth in our lives has very little to do with our bank account balance.  Our material belongings do not go with us.  Growth in the spirit is what matters.  When we complete our learning process, we leave earth for another adventure.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Her explanation of the soul is hard to articulate.  Also, I know I do not remember the complete experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       No best or worst part

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most think it is interesting, some agree with bits.  But I think they kind of think I was hallucinating

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     I don't know how I would come up with these visions inside my head.  It isn't something I had thought about before.  But a small part of me is still reserved.  I was under anesthesia at the time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Very comprehensive

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_r_adc.html