{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary P NDE 1086","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary P NDE 1086  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						554  Mary P NDE  1086  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I used to live in The French West Indies and there was air conditioning in my bedroom. I put it on stronger and stronger and what had to come happened - I placed my head under the covers, there was no air anymore and I made an NDE!


I could see my body as if I was against the ceiling, above the bed, and I saw my body, my eyes were closed, without the covers but when I woke up, my head was under the covers.


I saw a light channel. At the end of it, there was a blinding light and a voice - which seemed to come from a man - asked me to make up my mind. He asked me to choose between staying there or coming back on Earth. He asked me properly, 'Do you want to become wood shaving?' I did not understand what he meant before I woke up, but I think it concerned a choice I had to make, which I did not understand entirely.


I felt myself in a state of grace and absolute happiness as if I had no weight of my body anymore. I knew that the best moment had to come. In other words, I felt my soul flying in the air.


I think that the question was, 'Do you want to die?' and I woke up with a breath, I removed the covers, I craved for living and I got my breath back realizing that I was dreadfully suffocating and trembling.


At that time, I was young. I told my mother the whole story. She said that this kind of thing often happened - when the brain has no air anymore, one rambles.


I don't know what to think about this story today and maybe one day, someone would discover the reason of this experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1993

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I could not breathe anymore so heart failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself and it seemed as if I was my brain only. More precisely, I felt I was my soul.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was completely out of touch with reality.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was in the cosmos.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard a voice which was talking to me; it seemed to be a man's voice - quite grave and imposing.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was a non-material channel with dark light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   At the end of the halo of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I don't know because I cannot say if it was a thinking or a universal knowledge.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I chose to come back on Earth, I've made a choice!

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   PROTESTANTE NON PRATIQUANTE

What is your religion now?      Liberal   NON CROYANT

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I'm a non-believer but I really trust in myself. I know that one can only count on oneself that is what I've learned.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I know what will happen in my future. In other words, I have a sixth sense.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I could have died but I've seen something else.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They believe me because they had already heard about this kind of experience. I wanted to feel the same!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I've heard that the channel and the light were only seen by Christian people whereas the others did not describe the same thing. So, my question is: Have I really seen this channel and light?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      You should ask if the friends or family of the person were believers when the experience occurred.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_p_nde.html