{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary M NDE 730","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary M NDE 730  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						258  Mary M NDE  730  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was sound asleep and awoke to hear Jeffrey Long on Coast to Coast this evening. Although I do not like sharing my past with many because I realize that certain experiences are very unsettling for those who have not had similar ones, I also felt rather compelled to write to you.


Over thirty-five years ago, about two months after my oldest son was born, my kidneys shut down from the presence of multiple kidneys stones blocking the openings to both kidneys. After weeks in the hospital, my fever was over one hundred and six degrees from the poisoning of my blood. I can vaguely remember receiving last rights as I was wheeled off to the operating room for one of the first blood baths in this country. (Blood bath wherein they take your blood, heat it, and return it to your body.)


I can remember floating above the operation theater and listening to the doctors discuss the fact that I was dead anyway and they should try this new technique for the advancement of medicine. At the same time I could feel a pulling sensation and the room filled with a wondrous warm light and as my body drifted towards the light I continued to see the medical team working on my body. The closer I got to the light it felt warm and peaceful and I could hear muffled voices and music.


The operation continued in vain and I could see the pads being put on my chest and hear the sound on the monitor that indicated I had lost my vitals. (No heartbeat, no breathing.) I just kept drifting closer to the light until I heard a voice I did not recognize say that I needed to return to my body, and that it was not time yet. I was being pushed back, and I did not want to go either.


I literally fell back into my body, and awoke days later to see my doctor's smile. He told me, 'Welcome back - we have been waiting for you to wake up!' I tried to tell him about the light and being told it was not my time to leave yet, and he told me that many people who almost die have this experience and that I was going to be just fine and should try to rest while he notified my husband that I was awake. I rolled over, had a horrific pain in my side, and screamed. My monitor was buzzing again indicating that my vitals were failing. The nurse and doctor came running in and he ordered me back to surgery. As we were chasing down the hall, I told him that he had not sealed one of the valves properly during the operation.


Days later, I awoke again to find my doctor staring at me. He looked like he had not slept in days. This time all he wanted to know was, 'How did you know what went wrong during your operation?' I told him once again that I had watched the operation. He just stared, gave me a hug, and went to get my husband.


Years ago I would share this story until I realized that most people thought I was nuts and had a very active imagination. I have lived a very long life and now at fifty-five. I have always had a great sensitivity to people since I was a child.  Over time, this has developed into a knowing when things affect family, friends and to a point strangers. I guess hearing Dr. Long, I feel safe telling you that this really does happen.


Thank you for listening.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death I stopped breathing and my heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was in my operating gown and looked just like myself on the table.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Floating above my body, I was totally aware of what was happening. The light was very bright and only made it easier to see the operation on my body, and hear what was happening.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I seemed to be in suspension. On one hand, I was watching a medical team trying to save my life, while floating in a soft white light that made we want to go toward the sounds and music.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Voices I did not recognize and soft music.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A soft white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I felt at peace, and knew that it was not my time to leave Earth for whatever reason, I just knew it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not want to return to my body, and kept floating closer to the voices and music. I remember a voice I did not know telling me I had to return, because it was not my time, and with that literally falling back into my body. I think I made the table shake, because it startled the surgeon.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Daily Communicant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know I am one with God.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I am not sure I can truly express what happened in a way that is understandable by others. When I repeat the story, people usually become very unhinged and do not want me to continue.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I glow at times. I know that sounds odd, but people will come up and touch me out of nowhere, especially children. If I let it happen, I can probably read your mind. It just happens. I have to keep very focused on what I am doing not to allow myself to listen into somebody's thoughts. I can also communicate with animals.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Perhaps knowing what my relationship with God is and in that knowledge is a responsibility to help others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Yes, my family, who do not want to know and find it difficult to talk about. They just consider that I am smarter than anyone else is and that accounts for my behavior. Every now and again, I will meet somebody who is also touched in similar ways and we can share our experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Yes, I have had several near death experiences and have never been afraid. I have no real fear of anything or anyone.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Not really. Each person has their own individual moment that is necessary for them to move forward with their life here on Earth. We are here for a reason and stay for the season that is necessary to fulfill our purpose. For those who do not accept that there is a loving God, I think they will return many times until they understand.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_m_nde.html