{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_i_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary I Probable NDE 5110","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary I Probable NDE 5110  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary I Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2661 Mary I Probable NDE 5110  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After an abortion, I started to have a severe hemorrhage. In the beginning, I thought it was normal in such a situation and I just waited to see if it would stop by itself. After two days, as the bleeding didn't cease, I went to the hospital, by that time feeling very weak and with difficulty standing. After being examined, I became aware that my health condition required care and I was admitted to the hospital, where I stayed in a room with two beds.

I felt myself too weak, feeling pain and physical discomfort but aware of what was happening. I am not quite sure how long I remained in this state, if it was one or two nights. I didn't feel that I was recovering myself, quite the opposite, the discomfort and weakness continued, I had very light sleep and woke up many times.

On the third night (or second?) under a very distressed sleep I opened my eyes, already awaken. I was feeling really bad, in a lot of pain, and much discomfort due the tubes connected to my body. The room was dimly lit. From the bed, I could see the switch for the ceiling lamp and at the back, I could distinguish the room door.

My eyes were focused on the switch when I noticed people rushing into my bedroom. I saw a hand moving closer to the switch and at this moment, and before the light was on, I felt that I was 'ascending'. I felt great relief, I had no more pain or discomfort, and I had come out from a situation that in all aspects was terrible. I looked downwards full of curiosity, I tried to look at me but I couldn't see myself clearly, just a figure half hidden by the people around; my bed was away from the wall and there were many people moving on both sides of the bed.

An older African nurse, who worked during the night shift, was the only one that treated me with attention. When I saw her, I felt sorry and also indebted to her for seeing her great concern about me but I knew I didn't want in any way to return to that situation. Then I recognized two other nurses, they had always treated me in a sharp way and with dislike due to the fact I was in the hospital because of an abortion. I admit I felt even better when I saw them, for not being in 'that downwards confusion', and also for another type of feeling, not so kind, but which I felt like: 'It serves you right, now you worry about me.' There was still another person whom I didn't recognize.

After what it seemed to me to be a very short time, and without any manifestation of will, I came back to my body. There were still people around but they showed an expression of relief; they were arranging my clothes and positioning my bed near the wall. I felt again all discomfort and pain although, possibly, I was not so weak. The biggest difference I felt was that I had no more feelings of shame and impotence for being there. They turned off the lights and left the room.

I stayed one more night in the hospital; I remember that they told me I had given them a fright but I didn't want to know what had happened. As soon as I could, I left the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  ~1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Internada de urgência com hemorragias muito fortes após um aborto  Other Não sei qual a gravidade do meu estado.  I think so, but by that time I hadn't any perception about the severity of my health condition.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I had been conscious and alert all the time except for the moment I 'came down'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I have no idea about the length of the experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember what they were saying probably because I was not paying attention to that. My curiosity was firstly directed to my body and then, as I couldn't see it well, to the persons around it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great relief, happiness, no pain, awe, curiosity, empathy and antipathy for the nurses.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   A religião não tem um papel importante na minha vida.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   A religião não tem um papel importante na minha vida.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I hadn't talked about it for many years as it is associated to a traumatic event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of relief and absence of pain are unforgettable, the absence of guilt for the not so good feelings I often repress, the pleasant sensation of ascending. The feeling of gladness and peace of the whole experience and after it, a higher importance for being alive and a higher consideration for others suffering.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I hadn't talk about it to anyone as it is associated to a traumatic event. About three years ago, I told this experience to a male friend who was interested in these phenomena. He immediately associated it to religious aspects, I didn't proceed talking about the subject and I regret having told him.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never doubted about the reality of my experience probably due to the lucidity of my thoughts throughout the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_i_probable_nde.html