{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9329","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n18_jul_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N18 July 1885","mylang":"de"}
No. XVIII. JULY, 1886.,
.'JOURNA~
ol!' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COR'l'BR'!'I.
PAGR PAOB
New Membe1'8 and Al80ClAtea •• •• •• 449 [ 00 Phydcal Testa and the Line between
lleetlnl!'8 of Council . • . . . • •• •• •• 449 the Poaalble and the Impossible •• •. 466
:Report of the General Meeting, Jun,' 26 •• 45l Prediction of Reoovery in Mesmerism •• 4ti7
A Conference .. •. ... .. .. .. .. 460 Caaea Received by the L1te1'8ry Com·
:Report of the General Keeling, Jaly 10.. 460' mlttee .... .. .. .. .. .. .. 469
NEW l\IEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONOIU.RY MEMBER.
THE RIGIIT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P., Hawa.rden, North Wales.
MEMBERS:
BENTALL, F. W., Holloway Road, Heybridge, Maldon, Essex.
GREIG, REV. DAVID, M.A., Addington Rectory, Winslow.
PORTAL, SPENCER, Malshanger, Basingstoke.
ASSOCIATES.
BOLLAND, :aIRs., 7, Cranbury Terrace, Southampton.
BRILL, ALICE B., M.D., New York City, U.S.A.
EADY, Mas., Combe Royal, Kingsbridge, South Deyon.
EGERTON, MISS MARY L., Whitwell Hall, York.
KNIGIITLEY, LADY, Fawsley, Daventry.
LEAF, ARTIlUR H., Old Change, London, E.C.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council, held on the 26th of June,
the following Members were present :-Professor W. F. Barrett,
Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson,
F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, Professor H. Sidgwick, and Mr.
J. H. Stack. Professor Barrett took the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed DS
correct.
On the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, seconded by Professor
Sidgwi(lk, the Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M P., was elected an
Honorary Member of the Society.
Three new Members and four new Associates, whose names and
addresses a.ppear above, were elected.
Digitized by Google
450 JOYtrnol of SociPf!llor P8'!lc/dcal Resem·ch. [July. 188!).
The usual Cash Account ior the month, made up ta date, was
presented, and various accounts passed for payment.
It was agreed that a General Meeting should be held on the
evening of Friday, the 10th of July, at the Suffolk Street Rooms,
the chair to be taken at 8.30 p.m.; and that a Meeting of the Council
should take place on the same afternoon at 4.30.
At the Meeting of the Council on the 10th inst., the President in
the chair, the following Members were also present :-Professor W. F.
Barrett, Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, Edward R. Pease,
and Frank Podmore.
Aft.er the Minutes of the previous Meeting had been read, two new
Associates were elected, whose names and addresses appear on the pre-
ceding page.
Three books were on the table, presented to the Library, for whieh n.
vote of thanks was passed to the donors.
A series of resolutions which had been unanimously agreed to at n.
Conference, held on the previous day, (see p. 460) was presented to
the Council. After full discussion, they were adopted ItS follows :-
1. That Professor Barrett, Mr. Edmund Gurney, Mr. Malcolm Guthrie,
and Professor OliverJ. Lodge, be requested to draw up a series of form.
colour, and position tests, for thought-transference experiments, and that
these be printed.
2. That a vigorous attempt be made to enlist Members and Associates in
the experimental work, and that forms and directions be sent to all those who
express a willingness to help.
3. That a brief statement of results already obtained in thought-
transference, and of the difference between thought-transfcrence and muscle-
reading, be included in a paper sent to Members and Associates.
4. That a note be added to this paper and printed in the Journal, inviting
contributions from Members as to facts coming within their own observation,
or critical discussion of the results a.lreadyobtained by the Society. Also that
the author of any pa.per accepted for publication in the Proceedings, shall
receive gratuitously as many copies of his paper as he desires up to 100.
Information was brought before the Council of the ~tablishment
of the" Western Society for Psychical Research," at Chicago, the
Secretary and Treasurer being Mr. J. E. Woodhead, who is an
Associate of the Society for Psychical Research. A minute of the
Council of the Western Society was read, instructing their Secretary to
take the necessary steps to secure reciprocity and co-operation with
the Socit'ty for Psychical Research, and a letter desiring that an
arrangement migat be made which would enable their Members to obtain
the Froceedings of the Society for Psychical Research on favourable
terms. Itwas agreed to offer theWesternSocietythe same mutual arrange-
Digitized by Google
July. 1885.] Journal of Society/or Psychical Research. 451
ments and terms as had been made with the" American Society
for Psychical Research."
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 7th of
August.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Rociety was held on the eveningof Friday,
'June 26th, at the rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk
Street, Pall Mall, S"W.
The chair was taken by Professor Sidgwick.
The first item in. the proceedings was the second part of a paper by
l\ir. E. Gurney and Mr. F. W. H. Myers on "Some Higher Aspects of
Mesmerism." The topic dealt with on this occasion was silent" willing"
and "willing" at a distance. The effects considered were (1) thE'>
definite induction of trance; and (2) the performance by a " su~ject "
of some act" willed" by his controller, but of which he had received
no' intimation. Among other cases, a striking one of Esdaile's was
quoted, where a blind man was mesmerised from a distanceof 20 yards.
As rega~ds the control of actions, it was pointed out how fallacious the
instances are which are popularly supposed to illustrate the power; but
some apparently genuine cases were given. Another topic-the prO:-
duction of actual hallucinations by the will of some absent person-
was also touched on; but such cases do not seem to be specially
dependent on definite mesmeric influence. A summary was then
given of the way in wl1ich the authors' treatment of mesmerism,
as so far published, differs from that of other writers; the main
points being (1) that "hypnotic" and "mesmeric" phenomena are
both admitted as genuine, while carefully distinguished; and (:1) that
mesmerism is shown only to determine with special certainty events
which are found also capable of spontaneous occurrence. Finally, the
great desirability of extended experiment was urged. Much wearisome
failure and deceptive ambiguity must be expected; but by their power
of throwing the mental machinery slightly out of gear, hypnotism and
mesmerism may advance our knowledge of the more obscure mental
phenomena in ways which would be impossible to direct introspection.
The Chairman said that he did not propose to invite discussion on
the paper which had been read, as it was likely that several of
those present would wish to address the meeting in reference to what
Mr. Hodgson would have to say, but at the close Mr. Gurney would
be glad to answer any questions on the suqject he had treated of. He
now asked Mr. Myers to take his place as Chairman, as he was
about to read the conclusions of the Committee on the alleged phenomena
attested by members of the Theosophical Society.
Digitized by Coog
452 Journal of Societ!l/or P8.1/chical Re8earch. [July, 1885.
- - - - - - " - - " - ----------
Mr. F. W. H. Myers having taken the chair, Professor Sidg-
wick proceeded, on behalf of the Committee appointed to inves-
tigate the alleged marvellous phenomena connected with the Theo-
sophical Society, to read the followi"ng statement of their conclusions :~
That of the letters put forward by Madame Coulomb, all those, at
least, which the Committee have had the opportunity of themselves
examining, and of submitting to the judgment of experts, are
undoubtedly written by Madame Blavatsky; and suffice to prove that
she has been engaged in a long-continued combination with other
persons to produce by ordinary means a series of apparent marvels for
the support of the Theosophic movement. That, in particular, the
Shrine at Adyar, through which letters purporting to come from
Mahatmas were received, was elaborately arranged with a view to the
secret insertion of letters and other objects through a sliding panel at
the back, and regularly used for this purpose by Madame Blavatsky or
her agents. That there is consequently a very strong general presump-
tion that all the marvellous narratives put forward as evidence of the
existence and occult power of the Mahatmas are to be explained as due
either (a) to deliberate deception carried out by or at the instigation of
Madame Blavatsky, or (b) to spontaneous illusion, or hallucination, or
unconscious misrepresentation or invention on the part of the witnesses.
That after examining Mr. Hodgson's report of the results of his personal
inquiries, they are of opinion that the testimony to these marvels is in
no case sufficient, taking amount and character together, to resist the
force of the general presumption above mentioned.
Accordingly, they think that it would be a waste of time to prolong
the investigation.
As to the correctness of Mr. Hodgo;;on's explanation of particular
marvels they do not feel called UpOt1to express any definite conclusion; as
on the one hand, they are not prepared to endorse every detail of
this explanation, and on the other hand they have perfect confi-
dence in the impartiality and thoroughness of Mr. Hodgson's investi~
gation, and they recognise that his means ofarriving at a correct conclu-
sion are far beyond any to which they can lay claim.
There is only one special point on which the Committee think
themselves bound to state explicitly a modification of their original
view. They said in eftect in their First Report that if certain phenomena
were not genuine it was very difficult to suppose that Colonel Olcott
was not implicated in the fraud. But after hearing what Mr. Hodgson
has to say as to Colonel Olcott's credulity, and inaccuracy in observa-
tion and inference, they desire to disclaim any intention of imputing
wilful deception to Colonel Olcott.
The Chairman then called on Mr. Hodgson to continue his Report
on the phenomena. connected with the Theosophical Society.
Digitized by Coog
July, 188.5.] Journal of Society for Psyclilcal Resea1·ch.
Mr. Hodgson, in doing so, dealt chiefly with letters declared to have
been received "phenomenally." The mental queries to which it was
alleged instantaneous replieshadbeen given were always, so far ashecould
learn, such as might easily have been anticipated by Madame Blavatsky.
The envelopes in which Mahatma writing was found, and which were
declared to be absolutely intact, might easily, in the cases he had been
able to examine, have been opened and the contents abstracted, &c.
Mr. Hodgson described in detail the appearance of one of these
envelopes, which showed clear traces of its having been opened surrepti-
tiously; and mentioncd a case described to him by Mr. Ezekiel, a Theoso-
phist at Poona,which corroborated his own conclusions,but the details of
which Mr. Ezekiel was unwilling to have published. Some of the letter-
phenomena were probably arranged in the manner described in the
Jonrnal for April, where an account was given of a letter caused hy
the Coulombs to fall on Mr. Hodgson's head. The Mahatma letters
which appeared at the headquarters after Madame Blavatsky's depar-
ture for Europe might in all cases have been arranged by Mr_ Damodar,
and Mr. Hodgson gave instances of this. Other instances of falling
letters had occurred in Bombay, when the Society's headquarters were
there; some of these letters might have been pushed through the inter-
stices of the ceiling of the room where they fell, as Mr. Hodgson
ascertained by examining the premises; or in other cases through a slit
in the ceiling-cloth, no inspection of which seems to have been made
by witnesses of the phenomena. The disappearance of letters and other
objects from the top of a bookcase could be easily accounted for by the
fact that behind the bookcase was a venetianed door near Babula's
rooms, and Babula could have removed the letters, &c., by passing his
hand through the venetians. It was in this way probably that the
packet in the Vega case was made to "evaporate" while the witnesses
·were out of the room.
Mr. Hodgson then referred to the Koot Hoomi writing, and said that
after a minute and prolonged examination of the writing, he considered
it to be in most cases the handiwork of Madame Blavatsky, but in some
cases that of Mr. Damodar. In various documents which had been
kindly furnished by Mr. Sinnett for examination, numerous character-
istic traces of M'ldame Blavatsky's handwriting were obvious, and the
gradual elimination of some of these was manifest in successive letters,
suggesting that Madame Blavatsky acquired by degrees greater skill
in the practice of the disguised hand. Mr. Hodgson illustrated his
remarks on some of these characteristics by means of the blackboard,
and quoted the positive conclusion of Mr. F. G. Netherclift, the well-
known caligraphic expert, that the Koot Hoomi series of documents
furnished by Mr. Sinnett were unquestionably written by Madame
Bla·mtsky.
Digitized by Coog
454 Journal qf Society for P8ycMcai Re8earck. [July, 1885.
The Chairman said that lIr. Hodgson would now be prepared to
answer questions as to his Report, and Professor Sidgwick as to the
Report of the Committee. But first, it seemed fitting to invite the
remarks of a gentleman to whom all present would listen with respectful
attention on the subject of these phenomena. He begged leave to call
on Mr. Sinnett for any observations which he might wish to make.
Mr. Sinnett said that at the conclusion of his interesting paper~
Mr. Gurney had spoken of the ridicule and opposition which everyone
engaged in psychical inquiry was liable to encounter, and suggested tha~
in raising an easy laugh at the expense of some of the phenomena.
he had endeavoured to investigate, Mr. Hodgson had afforded
a prompt illustration of the justice of his colleague's remark.
He, however, desired to approach this subject in a serious spirit,
as a Member of the Society for Psychical Research not less than as a
Theosophist. It appeared to him that in this inquiry the Society ha.U
taken an entirely new departure. Hitherto when the guiding Mem-
bers of the Society thought they had found evidence illustrating
the reality of psychic phenomena, they had proceeded to investigate
it, and if they fonnd it calculated to support this idea they brought it
forward. If, on the contrary, they found it inconclusive they put it
aside. In the present case an entirely different coursc had been
pursued. The Society for Psychical Research had not considered the
whole Theosophical position, but only certain incidents. 1'he
important point in a matter of this kind was to prove the
existence of occult power. The value of a single item of positive evi-
dence was not impaired by any amount of negative evidence. Mr.
Hodgson had collected with great care a nst amount of negative
evidence, which in his (Mr. Sinnett's) opinion was of exceedingly small
value. Mr. Sinnett, speaking for himself and others, said that they had
studied occurrences of the kind treated of for many more years than Mr.
Hodgson had months. Mr. Hodgson had undertaken his inquiry,
moreover, under disadvantageous circumstances, when the group of
persons at the headquarters of the Society had been demoralised by the
long absence of their leaders. He had no experience of Indil~ to guide
him in conducting a difficult investigation with natives concerned.
The series of events examined in a case like this was not to he tested
by the weakest, as a chain was tested by the strength of its
weakest link, but the question whether psychic agency really
entered into the matter should be determined by reference
to the most important and conclusive incidents. He ventured
to say that in many of the cases he could bring forward no
elements of suspicion could be found. He considered that Mr. Hodg-
son had proceeded on a totally wrong principle. A large quantity of
miscellaneous evidence had been given by persons whose statements
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] Journal Qf Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 455
were of no value, and who were in the position of servants. Mr. Sinnett
then went on to speak of the " court" before which the inquiry took
place, and that practically prosecutor, counsel for the defence,andjudge
were all one and there was no cross-examination by persons representing
opposite sides. Speaking of the Committee, Mr. Sinnett referred to its
constitution as not including any who by reason of being acquainted with
or from having sufficiently studied the whole Theosophical movement
might have been in a position to direct its inquiries aright. He thought
tho Committee was as little qualified to form a judgment as Mr.
I Hodgson himself. As he was not able to be at th,; previous meeting, he
might perhaps be allowed to refer to the report of its proceedings. He
thought many of the conclusions drawn were wholly unsupported.
Reference was made to the position taken by the editor of the Ckristian
College Magazine, who was commended for having performed a delicate
task with much tact and temper. In reality the editor in question had
paid money to obtain the letters which he employed as a weapon against
the Theosophical mo.ement. Coming to the question of hand-
writing, Mr. Sinnett said that he now learned with great
pleasure that the experts had given an opinion to the effect that
the .so-called "Koot H oomi handwriting" of the letters he had
received from the Mahatma was produced by Madame Biavatsky.
He was glad of this because it was a reductio ad absurdum
of the argument derived from the opinion of the experts to the effect
that the letters alleged to have been written by Madame BJavatsky to
Madame Coulomb were genuine. This declaration had been the subject
of much concern and bewilderment for Theosophists at first, but it was
now retrospectively discredited by the present opinion about the Koot
Hoomi handwriting. There were great masses of letters in that hand-
writing in his possession, and a large part of this correspondence had
been seen by many persons besides himself. He believed that all these
persons would agree with him in regarding the hypothesis that the con-
tents of these letters had emanated from Madame Blavatsky as
absolutely grotesque in its extravagance. No caligraphic evidence in
such a matter would have weight for anyone who might fairly take into
consideration the substance of such letters. In conclusion, he
argued that the report now brought forward dealt exclusively with
mechanical details of certain phenomena connected with the Thosophi-
cal movement. It was impossible to solve the questions before thew.
without paying attention to the character of the mOVE:ment in its
higher aspects. The psychic phenomena. with which the movement had
l)6en associated were of merely collateral interest. By the philosophical
teaching of which the Theosophical Society had been the channel, light
had been thrown upon the inner meaning of a great mass of Indian
literature which, now that it was thus interpreted, was seen to bear
Digitized by Google
456 Jou,'llol Qf Soejetg for P8!1cMcal RC8carclt. [Jllly, 1885:
out the theory of Nature that had been. introduced to the world by
means of the Theosophical Society as the Esoteric Doctrine. The great
value of the work thus accomplished had been very widely recognised,
and whate,'er gratitude was due for the benefits conferred on modern
thinking in this way, was due primarily to Madame Blavatsky, through
whom the results had been attained. Whatever might now be alleged in
regard to the matters Mr. Hodgson thought he had investigated, no
one could deny that Madame Blavatsky had devoted a life which might
have been spent in an easy and honourable station,to the ser';ice of the
cause which the philosophical achievements of the Theosophical Society
represented, and her whole career was thus a demonstration of the fun-
damental nobility of her character.
The Chairman said that there were one or two points in Mr.
Sinnett's speech to which he felt bound briefly to reply. Mr. Sinnett
had made a strong point of the supposed fact that the editors of the
CI,riatio.n College Magazine had bougl/J, the Blavatsky letters from the
Ooulombs, as though they had been thus tempted to make the most of
a costly purchase, and to insist unduly on the importance of the
letters. In saying this, Mr. Sinnett could hardly have been cognisant
of a passage in the CI,ristio.n College Magazine for April last (which
.the Chairman now read to the meet.ing), in which the editors explicitly
denied having bought the letters, and stated, on the contrary, that the
letters had been lent to:them by the Coulombs without any conditions,
except that they should be ultimately returned. The editors distinctly
sta.ted that from first to last they had paid the Coulombs only 150
rupees, that being about the ordinary rate of remuneration for copying
and other actual work done by them.
Again, Mr. Sinnett had urged that tho Committee, before
investigating the more dubious phenomena, should have paid atten-
tion to what he cOllsidered as the conclusive and indisputable
phenomena which showed Madame Blavatsky's power over nature
without a doubt. But this was precisely what the Committee had
done. Beforc Mr. Hodgson's visit to India was resolved upon, the
90mmittee had expressly invited the attendance of any Theosophists
who had striking phenomena to recount, and had caused their depositions
to be taken down by a. shorthand writer, and afterwards printed for
consideration. Colonel Olcott, Mr. Mohini, and Mr. Sinnett himself,
had· in fact responded to this invitation, and a great mass of evidence
given by them had been printed. All this evidence, as well as all the
evidence that already existed in print, had beep most carefully weighed
by the Committee, with the result that they had, in an ad interim
and provisional report, expressed their conclusion that a primA, facie
case for further investigation existed, and had recommended that such
investigation should be pursued in India. The Committee had thus done
Digitized by Google
.July, 1885.] Journal qf Sociei;1J for Psycltical ReRcm·cH• 457
precisely what Mr. Sinnett urged that they ought to have done. The
only difference between Mr. Sinnett's view and the Committee's was as
regards the absolute value of the ·evidence supplied by himself and
others. The Committee, while showing by their subsequent action that
they attached Bome value to these accounts, were quite unable to
consider them as so conclusive and irrefragable as Mr. Sinnett and his
friends appeared to do. On the contrary, they saw various weak points
in even the strongest parts of the evidence; and the results of Mr.
Hodgson's visit to India had in several particulars confirmed the
suspicions which the examination-in-chief of the primary witnesses had
itself excited.
Mr. Sinnett had spoken of Mr. Hodgson's scrutiny as though it had
not embraced the whole field of the phenomena. The field covered by
the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters was surely wide enough, and he (the
Chairman) would much like to know by whom Mr. Sinnett and his
friends now supposed 'those letters to have been written 1 The only
hypothesis of which he had heard on the side of the defence was that
the letters had been written by'" black magicians." Now he was
prepared, as a Psychical Researcher, to keep his mind open to a variety
of strange hypotheses; but if he were called upon seriously to suppose
that a whole series of letters,-which according to all human canons of
evidence were in the handwriting of a well-known person, correspondecl
with her circumstances, and expressed her character,-to be in effect
the work of a blacle magician, he should retire in despair from tho task
of endeavouring to get at any truth in a region so remote from the laws
of ordinary human intelligence. He begged to call on Mr. Mohini for
any remarks which he might be disposed to make.
Mr. Mohini, in responding to the Chairman's invitation, complained
of the method adopted in taking evidence both in India and here. All
details regarding paenomenal occurrences were elicited by :)ross-
questionings by those who were utterly ignorant of the times and places
of thosp. occurrences. Upon this information, necessarily ohscure, Mr.
Hodgson proceeded in his investigation, and considered himself justified
in rejecting evidence whose chief defect was a want of precision which
ought not to have been expected. Regarding Dr. Hartmann's contra-
dictory statements, there was no reason for preferring the earlier to the
later one. For if Dr. Hartmann was capable of a falsehood there was
nothing to prevent him from using it as the means of separating
philosophical doctrines from phenomenalism with which it had been
illogically mixed up. He emphatically protested against the course
Mr. Hodgson had taken in attacking a dead man on hearsay evidence,
as he did when he stated that l\fulji Thackersy confessed on his death-
bed to having told lies at the instigation of Madame Blavatsky. Then,
again, he would draw attention to the fact that Mr. Hodgson lleYCr
458 Jom'nal flf Societ!1 for- PS!lchicfll Rellea1·cll.. rJuly,l885.
saw the Shrine, and that the drawings he had shown were made from
information given him by the Coulombs. In his opinion, Mr. Hodgson
had brought forward much 'that -he had not proved. In fact, Mr.
Hodgson had examined how far the statements of the Coulombs were
true, and not how far the phenomena were genuine. He had put
forward the statement of the Coulombs as to the surreptitious introducr
tion of letters through crevices in the ceiling, because he found some of
these crevices filled up in the way described by the Coul»mbs. :Mr.
Hodgson had accepted what the lawyers would call mere matters of
prejudice as good evidence. It was unnecessary to go into details.
The special difIh,ulties of investigations of this kind were well known to
those who ha.d inquired into the phenomena of Spiritualism, and to
these difficultie3 no attention had been paid. The Committee had
entirely ignored evidence resting upon the abnormal experience of
psychics. The Committee had entirely ignored subjective evidence.
This would not have been surprising if the inquirers had been
materialistic mell of science. But the Committee either did or did not
believe in psychic experience. If they did, he did not consider their
conclusions fair to themselves. For his part he thought many questions
must still be left open, and for many reasons he did not believe that
Madame Blavatsky wrote the Coulomb letters. Other explanations
were possil>le. Unquestionahle cases of abnormal production of people's
handwritin,g had occurred within the experience of inquirers into
Spiritualism. This was the black magic to which reference had been
made by the Chairman. He should be glad to know if Mr. Hodgson
showed the Coulomb.Blavatsky letters to l\-Iadame Blavatsky herself.
Professor Sidgwick remarked that Mr. Sinnett's eomplaint that the
Committee included none of the persons who were already committed
to the genuineness of the phenomena, could hardly be seriously enter-
tained.
Mrs. Macdonald, who described herself as only a student in theso
matters, thought Theosophy had much to answer for, in having given
false views of Buddhism, and for having turned away the attention
of so many from the beautiful philosophy and teaching of the older
writings.
Mr. Keightley and Mr. Henslow having made some brief remarks,
Mr. G. P. Bidder said he had listened with care to Mr. Sinnett and Mr.
Mohini, but he had heard no answer to the report of Mr. Hodgson as
to the facts. He could not at all agree with what Mr. Sinnett said as
to the course which had been pursued by the Society. The first thing
to be done was to sift the phenomena. This was what was done in
other branches of the Society'S work. Nor could he f.:>llow Mr. Sinnett's
argument as to thp. value of the wt)akest links in a chain of this kind.
If it were found that a certain portion of the phcnomena were tainted
. DigitizedbyGoogle
July, 1885.] Journal Cit Society fo/' PsychICal Re.~e(lrc!t. 459
with fraud, the greatest possible doubt is thrown on the remainder.
He could not conceive that those who were conscious of the power of
producing phenomena by genuine means should have recourse to fraud.
He thought that any impartial person carefully reading the reportswhich
the Committee made last year would come to very similar conclusions to
those at which Mr. Hodgson has arrived. Mr. Bidder proceeded, in
support of this view, to refer to two instances in particular, viz., the
falling of a letter referred to in p. 57 of the Report, and the instance
of the appearmlce of Mr. Damodar to Mr. Ewen in London.
Professor Barrett defended the strictly scientific position which the
Society had taken. As presenting somewhat of an analogy he referred
to papers in the early history of the Royal Society, some of which
consisted largely of what might be called negative evidence, but which
were of value in clearing the ground, and in leading to subsequent
positive results.
Mr. Hodgson, in replying, agreed with much that Mr. Sinnett
had said conceming the value of psychical phenomena on the
higher planes, but joined issue with him as to the value of the
phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society. Mr. Sinnett
had offered no specific reply whatever to tIle charges which had
been brought against these phenQIDena, except to say that the Report
largely depended upon the statements made by the Coulombs. This
was quite contrary to the fact, as he had in no case relied upon the evi-
dence given by the Coulombs, though he had found all their essential
statements corroborated hy independent evidence. In reply to the chief
statements made by Mr. Mohini, he said that whether Dr. Hartmann's
final statement concerning the destruction of the Shrine was true or not,
made no differen6e to the results of the investigation; but that the
Shrine had disappeared, and the explanation offerlJd by Dr. Hartmann
was the only one forthcoming. If, as Mr. Mohini apparently suggested,
Dr. Hartmann's last statements concerning the Shrine were false, then
one of theleading Theosophists at headquarters was still taking part in
deliberate dishonesty. He had not depended upon the decision of
caligraphic experts alone in the question of the Blavatsky-Coulomb
documents; he had examined carefully the circumstantial evidence
offered by Theosophists, and had questioned Madame Blavatsky herself
at great length upon the letters and statements printed in Madame
Coulomb's pamphlet. Nor was it true that the diagrams exhibited
were given by the Coulombs. Nearly all the drawings exhibited
had been enlarged from sketches which depended on measure-
ments made by himself. It was only the half-panel of the Shrine which
depended merely on the statements made by the Coulombs. Further
explanations conceming these and other points would be left to the
judgment of the readers of the complete Report shortly to be published.
Digitized by Coog
460 JOllrJU11 qf Society lor PaycMcal Reaearcl,. [July, 1885.
The Chairman, in a. few concluding remarks, said that he trusted
that the meeting would not separate with the impression that the Com-
mittee of the Society for Psychical Research were in any way disposed
to feel exultation in the exposure of the frauds involved in these
phenomena, or antagonism of any kind towards those who might still cling
to some kind of belief in them. Their feeling, if feeling might be alluded
to in a discussion which turned entirely upon evidence to facts, was one
of disappointment at the closure of what had seemed a. possible avenue
towards the attainment of !IO~e of that further knowledge of the ~rets
of the universe which Theosophists and members of the Society for
Psychical Research desired with equal earnestness, though it might be
with somewhat different standards of proof. Most assuredly there was
no touch of triumpl, on the one side, and he eanlestly trusted that there
would be no touch of resentment on the other, but that all should still
feel themselves united by a disinterested love of truth.
A CONFERENCE.
On the invitation of Professor Barrett, SOUle members of the Society
for Psychical Research beld an infonnal conference, at 14, Dean's Yard,
on the 9th inst. Professor Balfour Stewart presided, and among those
present were Mr. Pearsall Smitb, of Philadelphia, the Hon. Percy
WYlldham, M.P., Mr. R H. Hutton, and Professor Lodge. The chief
subject of discussion was the imporlance of securing the extension of
experimental work, especially in thought-transference, and of enlisting
the further aid of Members and Associates. The result of the views
expressed was embodied in a series of resolutions, which were sub-
stantiallyadopted by the Council at its Meeting on the following day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The last Genel'al Meeting of the Society for the present season was
held on the evening of Friday, the 10th inst., at the Suffolk Street
Rooms.
The President took the chair, and in his opening address he gave a
sketch of the experimental work which has been done during the last
few years in the su~ject of Thought-transference, and strongly insisted
on the importance of seeking for fresh" subjects."
Mr. Edmund Gurney made some remarks on "Retractations and
Alterations of View," which will appear in the next Journal.
Mr. Malcolm Guthrie, J.P., then read an account of some further
experiments 011 the transference of ideas and sensations, conducted
during the last year with one of his fonner subjects, Miss R.
The President made a few remarks on one very interesting and im-
portant featul'e which Mr. Guthrie had described; namely, the tiTl&8
Digitized by Google
.July, 1885.] Journal of Societ!l for PIJ!lcltical Rellearch. 461
which appeared to be nec6.'lSary in some cases for the impression to
assume a definite form. He called upon Professor Barrett for some
remarks.
Professor Barrett said that the same thing had been remarked in
some of the former series of experiments. He had sometimes found
that the image would float up again, as it were, when the attention of
the mimI had gone into something else. For instance, a name thought
of by the agent had produced apparently no effect on the percipient.
Some little time afterwards, when another matter was in hand, the per-
cipient had suddenly said, " Oh, was the name so and so 1" giving the
right one.
The same feature had been strikingly observed in some of Mr. M.
Guthrie's experiments in the transference of tastes. Salad oil, Worces-
tershire sauce, and bitter aloes being successively tasted by th(' agent,
the percipient did not describe the salad oil until the agent was tasting
the Worcestershire sauce; and the taste of the Worcestershire sauce
was only perceivedwhen the agent had gone on to bitter aloes.
The President referred to the frequent occurrence of being unable
by mental effort to call up a familiar name, which afterwards rose up
spontaneously when the attention was turned in another direction.
Dr. Guthrie said he should like to testify to the extreme care with
which his cousin, Mr. Malcolm Guthrie, had conducted his experiments.
On one occasion, when he himself had been present, the conditions were
not s11ch as to allow him to come ~ an absolute con~lusion, and he had
not had the opportunity of pursuing the subject in a way which would
entitle him to express any personal opinion on so important a question;
but as to his relative's thoroughly scientific mode of conducting the
work he had no doubts.
The Meeting then assumed a conversational character.
The following letter from Mr. Sinnett relates'to the discussion that
took place at the General Meeting on June 26th :-
To THE EDITOR OF THE JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYClIICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Time did not allow me at the meeting of the 26th to answer certain
comments on my remarks made by subsequent speakers. May I ask your
permission to add a few observations to any report of the proceedings you
may publish? I never supposed or hinted that any sum of money had been
given for the letters, by the editor of the Cht-istia-n College Magazine, that
would be considered large by prosperous people in this country. But the
150 rupees actually paid, according to Mr. Myers' statement, would be an
important payment amongst the people concerned. The letters wero not the
less bought because the originals may have been returned to the Coulomhs
after they were printed. Their publication in the magazine was the result
Digitized by Google
462 JOItr/lalof Snciet!/ for Pst/cllicat Researcn., [July. 1885.
paid for, and under the circumst:l.nces it would be 11. mistake to overlook the
fact that they were purchased weapons in the fierce paper war which rages
in l\ladrns between the missionaries and the Theosophists.
As to the view taken by Mr. Myers of the Committee's action, it appears
to me that the prima facie case for believing that Madame Blavatsky has in
some cases shown true psychic power, which he recognises as having been
established by the examination of the witnessell in London, is not touched
by the examination of other witnesses concerning other transactions in India.
The examination in chief of A. by B. at one time and place is not efficiently
crossed by an examination of C. ca.rried on by D. at a totally different time
and place. It is just because in this way Mr. Hodgson's investigations have
not groWn in any legitimate way out of the incidents to which they attach
importance that Theosophists genera.lly seem to put Ius results aside as
.rrelevant; for those of us who have an intimate knowledge of the places
and people concerned. they are discredited in otller ways.
Professor Sidgwick thought my objection to the composition of the
Committee disposed of by regarding the Committee as a tribunal which ought
not to include members committed to definite opinions on the question to be
tried. But that was liot the position occupied by the Committee. It was
not a tribunal, for it never had to face any representatives of the accused
persons whom it affectEKl to try. Its evidence was collected in secret by
one of its own number, whose present attitude, at a.ll events, is very
decidedly antagonistic to the persons whose conduct is being investigated.
Its views have been formed in a consultation which has not been assisted
by the suggestions of anyone whose sympathies would render him a.n
efficient critic of Mr. Hodgson's Report. I think I am not exaggerating the
general opinion of the London Lodge of the Theosophical Society, in
assuring you that for these and other reasons we regard the methods by
which this illvestigation has been carried out as altogether vitiating its
results.
~Ir. Bidder hardly seemed to catcb my meaning about the principles on
which psychic inquiry should be conducted. If the question was, "Is
Madame Blava.tBky's character immaculate 1" then we should address our-
selves to incidents that suggest suspicion. If the question is, "Are psycHo
phenomena possible 1" it is wise to examinine the facts which seem to
suggest that conclusion, in preference to those which do not promise to
afford evidence for it.
Permit me, in conclusion, heartily to reciprocate the feeling which Mr.
Myers so admirably conveyed in his concluding remarks.
Yours very truly,
A. P. Sn."NETr.
Mr. Sinnott's lotter gi\'es me an opportunity of olearing up some
misapprehensions, under which he seems still to labour, both as to the
action of the Committee and as to the grounds on which it has been b~d.
I must begin by saying that I do not quite understand his argument as to
the money paid by the editor of the Chrilltia'J CoUege Magazlne for the
Bla.\·atsky-Coulomb letters. Had he maintained that a large sum had been
given for them, I should have supposed that lle was attacking the editor on
Digitized by Google
July, 1835.] Journal qf 8ociet!l.for PS.llcltical Re-search. 463
the' ground of the somewhat difficult ethical question as to how far it is
justifiable to bribe impostors to betray their accomplice. But since it is not
denied that the payment was on the ordinary scale for work done for the
magazine, I fail to see what ground of attack there is. The opinion of Mr.
Myers as to the tact and temper shown by the editor is founded, I believe.
on the moderate tone of the articles that have appeared in the magazine on
the subject; and I think that all impartial persons who read these articles
and consider the strength of the case in the editor's ha.nds against a bitter
enemy to the' cause he represents, will agree with him in this view.
Perhaps, however, the object of Mr. Sinnett's remarks is not so much
to attack the editor of the Ohri.sticm Oollege M Qga.:ilte for giving work and
wages to the Coulombs, but rather to depreciate the trustworthiness of the
recipients of the wages. If so, it is sufficient to say th:1.t no part of the
conclusions, eitherof the Committee orof Mr. Hodgson, rest in any degree
011 the assumption that the Coulombs are trustworthy witnesses.
With regard to the second question discussed in Mr. Sinnett's letter, I
think that he understands the expression pl'imd facie case in a different sense
from that in which it was USE'd by Mr. Myers and the Committee. We do not
regard the establislmlent of ILpl'imdfacie case as implying a definite con-
clusion that certain phenomena were genuine, but only as a rel1.8on for in-
vestigating further. Moreover, we considered this ca.se to rest, RO far 11.8 the
Indian phenomena were concerned, chiefly on the testimony of certn.in na.tive
witnesses who were not available for examination in London. As re-
gards phenomena experienced in India by Mr. Mohini, Mr. Sinnett, Colonel
Olcott, and the greaLcr number of witnesses, English and Indian, we did not
consider that it had been shown that they could not have been deceived by a
combination between Madame Blavatsky, the Coulombs, and s~rvants. We
thought it possible, however, that our views onthese points might be modified
if, through ono of our number, we could obtain that knowledge of ..times and
places" which, 11.8 Mr. Mohinijustly remarks, we did not possoss. Mr. Hodg-
son accordingly went out to India with instructions to examine,
and 1l3.ve examined by experts, the BIavatsky·Coulomb letters; to I1.8ce1"-
tain, so far 11.8 possible, the dE'.gree of value that was to be attached to
the statements of certain important native witnesses; and to examine
localities and witnesses with a view to ascertaining whether various pheno-
mena, such as the faIling of letters from the ceiling, and appearances of
Mall3.tmas, could be accounted for by fraud in the ways that had suggested
themselves to the members of the Committee, or in other ways. This, Mr.
Hodgson has done, and the Committee, with the results of his investigation
before them, have arrived at the conviction that their primd facie case has
broken down; a conviction, it may again be stated, which in no degree
depends on the assertions of the Coulombs. I find it difficult, therefore, to
understand why Mr. Sinnett should consider that"Mr.. Hodgson's investiga-
tions have not grown in any legitimate way out of the incidents to which
Theosophists attach importance." His impression on this point may possibly
be due to the fact that Mr. Hodgson's Report has as yet been only laid
before the Society in a fragmentary and incomplete form. If so, the
matter will be much clearer when this report is published in full in the
next number of the Society's Proceedings. But I cannot so account
Digitized by Google
464 JOllrnalof SfJCiel!l for PS!lckical Researcli. [Jllly, 18Sli.
for Mr. Sinnett's asaertion "that Theosophists generally seem to put Mr.
Hodgson's results aside as irrelevant." If they put aside as irrelevant the
whole of the cumulative argument by which. Mr. Hodgson has supported
his conclusions, (1) that the Blavatsky.Coulomb letters are genuine, and,
(2) that the Shrine at Adyar was constructed and used for the production
of spurious phenomena,:..-.then it is difficult indeed to conceive the kind and
degree of evidence that would induce them to abandon their confiding
attitude.
Finally, Mr. Sinnett repeats in a modified form his objeCtions to the
constitution of the Committee. His complaint now is that the Committee
did not contain any person adequately in sympathy with the Theosophic
view of things. It must, I think, be obvious that any objection of this kind
ought to have been raised, if at all, when the Committee was first constituted
more than a year ago, and not now, afterit has reported unfavourably on the
Theosophic marvels. But I need not press this point, for I have no fear that
Mr. Sinnett's complaint will be regarded as well founded by any impartial
reader of our First Report. I am much more afraid that most sensible per-
sons will criticize our action from the opposite point of view, and will consider
that with the evidence which was even then before ns of trickery on the part
of Madame Blavatsky, we were hardly justified in the expenditure of time
and trouble involved in our Indian investigation. To this criticism my
answer would be that we did not regard ourselves-as Mr. Sinnett seems to
suppose-as a "tribunal" to try the question" whether Madame Blavatsky's
character is imml\Culate." The question we had to deal with was both wider
and more difficult; we had to consider whether any part of the whole mass
of evidence offered in connection with Theosophy could be made available
for the establishment of any of the psychical laws hitherto unrecognised by .
science, which it is our function to investigate. The negative conclusion at
which we have arrived on this point is one which we were bound to state
with perfect unreserve; but we have no right and no desire to caJl on the
members of our Society to accept it merely on our authority. The evidence
on which it is based will be shortly placed before all who are interested in
the question; and if, after roading it, any member of the Society should
still think it a profitable pursuit to fish for "psychical" phenomena in these
troubled waters, it is perfectly open to him to do so, and to bring his results
before us.
There is one other point in Mr. Sinnett's letter to which I must refer.
He speaks of Mr. Hodgson's evidence as "collected in secret." It seems,
therefore, worth while to state that we took care to make it known to all
concerned that Mr. Hodgson had gone to India to collect this evidence
on behalf of our Society; and that his unfavourable view of the evidence
was communicated to the lea.ding Theosophists at Madras, before his
departure from India..
H. SIDGWICK.
Digitized by Google
July. 188.,),] JOlernal of Societ!lfor P8!1ckical Re8earch. 465
ON PHYSICAL TESTS, AND THE LINE BETWEEN THE
POSSIBLE AND THE IMPOSSIBLE.
To tIM Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH. '
SIR,-The article under the above heading, in the June number of
the Journal, is of so much interest in relation to the question of evidence
of "occult" phenomena, that I hope you will allow it to be subjected to
some examination; which is the more desirable as thtl argument of the
article is extremely specious, and is likely to be accepted without re-
serve by those who have not already considered the subject from &
somewhat different point of view.
With regard to the first point, the confusion of moral with physical
evidence, I have nothing to object, nor have I ever seen thejustification
of tests in the medium's own interest better stated. Testimony to
character is mere opinion, and is so treated-though admitted for
the defence-in criminal trials. It can have no place as evidence in
stri'}tly scientific investigations.
But I feel more difficulty in assenting to the proposition as to the
onus probandi in its application to the "margins" claimed for known
physical agency. No doubt, in the physical agency we have a vera
causa, and we are not entjtled to resort to hypothetical causation for
any effect to which the former is adequate. But there is a legitimate
apriori presumption against the adequacy of a physical cause to any
effect which it has never been known to produce apart from the disputed
case; while the presumption against a new or unknown agency arises
only from the absence of facts requiring it. It is not necessary to con-
tend that any such other agency is at once proved; only that a prima
facie case for it is established, and the onus probandi shifted. This
shifting of the burden of proof in the course of evidence is of frequent
experience in courts of law,while on the main issue, of course, it remains
true that this burden is ou the plaintiff. So, I conceive, in scientific re-
search a fact greatly exceeding former experience would at once put the
experimenter on a re·testing the capabilities of his known agencies, that
he might not have to suspect the existence of an unknown one. He would
not anticipate this, unless the disproportion between the old known
capabilities and the new observation were very great, but he would not
feel justified in making presumptions which would dispense with trial.
He would recognise a fact not yet actually accounted for.
And still more, I submit, must this be the case when the known
lesser capability of. the recognised agency is itself of exceptional
occurrence, that is, under rare and peculiar conditions; when it was
itself .opposed, in the first instance, to legitimate presumptions of what
Digitized by Google
·466 JOIl1"nal qf Society.for PS,IIcltical Researclt. [July. 18M.
was possible. For the margin justifiably claimed for the possible may
fairly he said to have been exhausted when we got the originally
improbahle. At first, we should require demonstration before accepting
the alleged fact that a hand could be squeezed through a rigid circum-
ference in any very appreciable degree less than its own. If we get the
demonstration, but only for a very few exceptional hands, the positive
presumption against a much greater squeezability is then increased by
the rarity of the easier case.
But the question now at issue-on whom is the burden of proof in
such a case-may be tested in another way. Suppose that there was
no suggestion of any other than the known physical agency, but that it
·WM important to ascertain whether a phenomenon alleged to hll"e
happened by means of it really had happened at all, it being one greatly
in excess of all former experience, yet ejusdem generis with former
experience. Would not den:.onstration be required as the condition of
belief1 But why, unless for the r!'.a.son that we declined to lJreSU}JPose
such a margin of possibility as would be necessary for the phenomE'non
alleged 1 On what ground, then, do we allow the presupposition when,
the fact being admitted, the only question is between an ageney not
otherwise proved to be adequate and an agency not otherwise proved to
exist 1 Yet if the presupposition is not made, the fact is unexplained
until and unless we get positive proof aliter that our known agency is
·adequate to it.
The" Spiritualist," then, I submit, hilS got thus fa.r on his way in
the particular case, excluding, of course, all other experienee which
would tend to establish the agency he affirms as a vera causa. He has
not, indeed, shown positively and certainly that his fact is inexplicable
by the physical agency, except for those who reject the doctrine of very
large "margins" altogether, or at least in such cases. But he
has established a strong prima facie case. He has put us to
the alternative of showing that the physical agency is adequate,
·or of admitting that his fact remains simply unexplained posi-
tively. He hM only got to prove the negative up to the point
where adverse probabilities on the physical side come to his aid.
Those probabilities, adverse to the physical agency, are not less
.now, because the fact to be explained is admitted, than they would
have been had the fact itself been disputed. They ere not less now,
because we are face to faee with an alternative hypothesis of causation,
than they would have been if the alternative had merely been the
unveracityof a witness.
If there is a fallacy in this reasoning, it will, no doubt, be detected
and pointed out by the·.able contributor whose proposition I have
ventured to question.
C.O.M.
Digitized by Coog
July, 1885.] Journal of Soeiet,1J for PsycMcal Re8earcl,.• 467
PREDICTION OF RECOVERY IN MESMERIC TRANCE.
The following case is translated from communications in Ft'ench sent
to us by Dr. Nicolas, Count Gontlmys, of Corfu. His MS., which con-
tains further theoretical discussion of clairvoyance, may be had on loan
by application to the secretary.
In a former paper I had the pleasure of describing to my readers II. cure,
which I succeeded in effecting in the year 1869, when I was attached to the
garrison of Zante. To-day I am going to tell you of another, which I per-
formed in the same year, and which, on account of some singular circum-
stances connected with it, was of peculiar interest to all concerned, and
won for me considerable fame in the neighbourhood in which I then
resided. My patient, in this case, was a girl of about 20, named
Denise Zyros, who, since the age of 14, had suffered from that form
()f hysteria which is generally known by the name of hysterical melancholia.
Every kind of treatment during these eight years had been tried for her in
. vain; the doctors at last pronounced her case hopeless; and the parents could
.()nly try to reconcile themselves to the fact that their daughter was incurable.
The poor girl for years had ceased to exist as an animal being ;she seemed
simply to vegetate, and, but for a few unconnected words which she some-
times muttered in a low voice, one would have supposed every spark of
reason in her to have been extinct. Sitting in a chair with closed eyes and
bent head, she appeared utterly unconscious of all that took place around
her. She had even forgotten how to eat and drink, so that to sustain life
her parents were obliged to force open her jaws and compel her to swallow a
few mouthfuls of some nutritious subst8.nce. Although, apparently, she was
no longer in pain, yet a continuous trembling of the whole body was observ-
a.ble; her eyelids when raised showed only the whites of the eyes, the cornea
being lost in the sockets. From all information I could obtain as to
the girl's former state of health, I was confirmed in my opinion that this was
.a severe case of melancholia, and one, indeed, tlmt was rapidly drawing near
its closing scene. I made a thorough examination of the case and was un-
able to discover a trace of anything radically wrong in the organic system.
This examination took place on the 29th ofJ uly,and on that day I mesmerised
her for the first time. In the course of half-an-hour she fell into a deep sleep,
which sleep was preceded by a relaxation of the limbs, a cessation of the
usual trembling, and of the habitual low murmuring. I let her sleep for an
hour, and as I saw no change in her expression during that time, I thought
it better not to disturb her by addressing her. I certainly had not expected
to produce so quick an effect on an organism which, one may almost say, had
lostall right of domicile in this physical. world, so utterly insensible was it to
all surrounding agents.
The next day I mesmerised her again, and this time she not only went
to sleep as she had done the previous evening, but she even became clair-
voyante. She told me she was sleeping, and that she saw a dazzling light
which emanated from my eyes and fingers, and which thrilled her whole body.
She asserted tha~ I should succeed in curing her'in 17 days, and more-
()ver was able to fix the exact date of her recovery, telling me that I must
Digitized by Google
468 Journal Q/' Societu for PS.I/chicat Resent·cn. [July, 188.'i.
mesmerise her twice everyday, morning and evening, and that she should
than be able to walk to Mass on the 15th of August-which would be the
Feast of the Assumption-accompanied by her brother, all of which facts did
actually take place precisely as she had predicted. When I left my
patient, after first awakening her, I happened to g'> down to the dispensary,
where I found several doctors and other persons assembled. I turned to
the former, and asked them if they were acquainted with the case of the
afHicted girl Zyros. They replie1 that they knew her well, that they had used
every means in their power to bring about her recovery, and that they had
eventually given up her case as hopeless. I wId them that I believed them to
be mistaken in their opinion, that in 17 days she would be able to go
out, thatshe would be completely cured, and that they might see herat Mass
on the Feast of the Assumption. They all burst out laughing at this un-
expectedassertion, and unanimously agreed that I must be out of my senses.
Gossip spreads quickly in a small town, and in a short time this affair became
the subject of general talk in Zante. Opinions varied greatly. Some called
me a quack and a:humbug, whilst others were inclined to exalt me to the
skies; in fact publio opinion seemed to know no happy mean.
Meanwhile I continued to mesmerise my patient morning and evening,
and found her improving in health daily. At last the 15th of August, the
much-talked of day, arrived. The cathedral bell announced to the faithful
the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, and a orowd collected round the
Zyros' house to see Denise walk to church ~r rather to see the quack
unmasked I What, then, was their astonishment to see the girl presently
walk downstairs, and appear amongst them in perfect health and good spirits.
The crowd was electrified; a loud "hurrah" was heard on all sides ; whilst
I, putting her arm in mine, led her victoriously towards the church, followed
by all the bystanders, who cheered us vociferously.
From that date, I am confidently able to affirm that the girl has continued
in good health.
I do not pretend for a moment to be a partisan of those demonological
ideas which must have inspired St. Augustine when he wrote his "Civitas
Dei." At the Banle time, I feel bound to state openly all that I obsorved in
this case, without deducing from it any conclusions, which might be pre-
mature in the present undeveloped state of physiological and psychological
science.
The third time I mesmerised the girl, as soon as my influence acted on
the nerVOUR system, and even before she was asleep, a great ohange in her
was observable. Her eyes opened wide, she made hideous grimaces, and
used exce88ively coarse language. She defied my mesmeric power, and
attempted by such violent efforts and contortiolJs to oppose my actions, that
I was obliged to tie her down. As soon, however, as she had fallen into &
mesmeric sleep, she would cry bitterly, and excuse herself for what she had
just said by assuring me that it was not she who had previously spoken.
Now, we have here before us a case of partial clairvoyance-. clair-
voyance, that is to say, relating solely to the patient's own recovery. We
know that she had been living for many years ill total mental obscurity;
that she had lost all idea of time, and all consciousne88 of outward events ;
we must, therefore, it seems to me, make a distinction between the two
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] Journal of 80ciet!/.f01' PS!lcflicalllesearck. 469
phenomena presented, that is to say, between her prediction as to the
duration of her malady, and the sudden awakening of the mind to the
cOllSciousness of time, which enabled ~r to fix the 15th of August as the
day on which her sufferings would terminate. The first of these phenomena.
I should call subjective, the second entirely objective. The one might be
connected with intuition or instinct, tile other is independent of any such
action. It may be suggested by some that my patient was able to read my
mind, that she learnt the day of the month from my thoughts, and was able
consequently to make her calculations from this given point. To this I
reply that I was not thinking of the day of the month; that, as a matter of
fact, I did not know whether it was the 2nd, 10th, or 20th ; neither had I
the least idea that the 15th of August Was the day of the Assumption. Again,
it must be noted that no one was present at these seances. I call attention
to this fact, to remove all suspicion from the minds of those who would say
that the somnambulist learnt from the bystanders the information 8ha
required to enable her to fix the date of her prophecy.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMIT,TEE.
(Continued. )
We will first give two cases belonging to a qu~te distinct type-one
which involves no time-coincidence at all. Evidence that certain hallucin-
ations have been telepathic,and notpurely subjective,in character may be
afforded by a coincidenl)e of another sort-namely, that several persons,
at different times, have had a hallucination representing the same person,
though that person was apparently in no abnormal state on any of the
occasions. Clearly it would be difficult to regard a repetition of this
sort as accidental. It being comparatively a ra~e event for a sane and
healthy person to see the form of an absent,person at all, that two
or more sane and healthy persons at different times should see the form
of the same absent person, is, on the theory of chances, so unlikely as
to suggest a specific faculty on the absent person's part for promulgating
telepathic impulses.
The point is important from its bearing on the question whether the
peculiarity of organisation which conduces to telepathic transferences
belongs rather to the percipient or to the agent.
To decide this question we should naturally ask which happens the
more frequently-that the same percipient, or that the same agent, is
concerned in several telepathic incidents. Now, of repetitions to tho
same percipient we have several good examples; but that the same
agent should figure repeatedly is made unlikely by the very nature of
the ordinary type of case, which implies (over and above any natural
peculiarity of organisation) an exceptional crisis--indeed more often
than not the crisis of death, through which no one can pass more than
Digitized by Google
470 Jou1'1wlo/ Society/o,. P8ycMcai Re8ea,.ch. [July, 1885.
once. The only chance for Ilo dying ~aent to show a special faculty for
originating telepathic impressions is by impressing several per8O'1l.8 at
once: and cases of collective peroipience, which may possibly be so'
explicable,will be found to be among the most striking in our collection.
Meanwhile, the type where telepathic impressions seem now and
again to be thrown off at haphazard, and independently of death or any
other crisis, is theoretically of at least equal interest.
Our cases (about half-a-dozen in number) are not numerous enough
to prove conclusively the existence of this form of telepathic trans-
ference; but the mention of them may, perhaps, serve to elicit further
instanCfl8.
L.-2301.-AD PD
We received the following account from Mrs. Hawkins, of Beyton
Rectory, Bury St. Edmunds.
March 25th" 1885.
I send you my cousins' accounts of my apparition. My cousins only
signed with their initials, but have willingly given me leave to mention their
names.
I have also sent you the account of my next apl>earance, which un-
fortunately cannot now be related by the eye·witness.
Again, a third time one of my little sistersreported that she had seen me
on the stairs, when I was seven miles oft'-but she might so easily have been
mistaken that I have never put anY'faith in that appearance. Then I was
about 20.
For many years after that these appearances seem to have entirely ceased,
but in the autumn of 1877 I was seen in this house by my eldest son, then
agcd Z1, who may, I hope, give you his own account ofit.
Lucy BA.WKINS.
The event described in the enclosed accounts took place at Cherington.
near Shipston-on·Stour, in Warwickshire, the l'csidence of my uncle, Mr.
Willianl Dickins, who was for many years chairman of Quarter Sessions in
the county. The ladies who saw the appearance are two of his daughters,
one of them a little olderthan myself, the other three or four years younger.
I was then just 17.
The only mistake I can discover in either of the accounts is that Mrs. Mal-
colm says I had been hiding with her" brother," whereas I had really been
all the time with her sister, Miss Lucy Dickins, a fact of no importance
except that she (Miss D.) might (if necessary) bear ;witness thatI had really
been with herall the tinle in the washhouse, and 80 could not have been near
where I was seen.
I remember tll&t we were all80mewhat awed by what had ll&ppened, and
that it broke up ourgame. I myself quite thought it was a warning of speedy
death, butas I was not 1\ nervous or excitablo girl it did not make me anxious
or unhappy, and of course, in time, the impression passed oft'.
'Lucy HAWKINS.
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 471
Writing to Mrs. Hawkins in September, 1884:, Miss Dickins said :-
Georgie is coming here on Friday, and I propose then to show her your
letters, and Mr. Gurney's, and that we'should each write our impre88ions of
what we saw independently, and see how far they agree, and we will send
the result to you. It isall very fresh in my memory,and I can at this moment
conjure you up in my mind's eye, as you appeared under that tree and
disappeared in the yard. I even recollect distinctly the dre88 you wore, a sort .
of brown and white, rather large check, such as was in fashion then, and is
now ; but was in abeyance in the intermediate years.
Shortly afterwards Mi88 Dickins wrote :-
Cherington,
September 29th, 1884:.
I send the two accounts which Georgie and I wrote about your appar.itio~•.
We wrote them independently, and so I think they are wonderfully good
evidence as they tally in almost every particular, except the little fact that I
thought she joined me in searching the yard for you, and she thinks not,
but that has nothing to do with the main fact of the story, our entire belief
that we saw you in the body.
In the autumn of 1845 we were a large party of young ones staying in
the house, and on one occasion were playing at a species of hide-and-seek,
in which we were allowed to move from one hiding-place to another until
caught by the opposite side. At the back of the house there was a small
fold-yard opening on one side into the orchard, on the other into hhe stable-
yard, and there were other buildings to the left. I came round the corner
of these buildings, and saw my cousin standing under some trees about 20
yards from me, and I distinctly saw her face; my sistel', who at the moment
appeared on the other side, also saw her and shouted to me to give chase.
My cousin ran between us in the direction of the fold-yard, and when she
reached the door we were both close behind her and followed instantly, but
she had entirely diSappeared, though scarcely a second had elapsed; we
looked at one another in amazement, and searched every corner of the yard
in vain; and when found some little time afterwards, she&88ured us she had
never been on that side of the house at all, or anywhere near the spot, but
had remained hidden in the same place until discovered by one of the
enemy, . S, F. D.
I well remember the in,cident of your "fetch" appearing to us. I
believe I wrote down the details at the time, but do not know what has
become of that record, so must,trust to my memory to recall the circumstances,
and do not fear its being faithful though nearly 40 years hava passed ! !
We were playing our favourite game, at" Golowain," which consisted in
dividing into sides at hide-and-seek, the party hiding having the privilege of
mO\'ing on from place to place until they reached the " Home," unl688 mean-
while caught by the pursuing party.
As I stood towards the end of the game,as a seeker, in the orchard, I saw
you, who belonged to the opposite party, stealing towards me. As your
dre88 was the same as your sister's, and there was the possibility of my mis-
taking you for her, who was on my si.de, I shouted her name, and she
Digitized by Google
472 Journal flf Boekt.1I for PS!JeMenl Resertrch. [July, 1885.
answered me from the opposite side ()f the wood. I then gave chase, and
you turned, and looked at me laughing, and I saw your face distinctly. But
at the same instant, Nina, also my friend, hut your enemy, appeared round
some comer, and being still nearer to you than I was, I left the glory of your
capture to her. She was close upon you as you fled into a cow-yard. I was
so sure your fate WIlolJ sealed that I followed more slowly, and hearing the
bell ring, that, according to the rules of our game, recalled us to the
"Home," I went on there, to· find Nina upbraiding you for having 80
mysteriously escaped her in this cow-yard.
In astonishment you said you never had been near the place. Of course
I supported my little sister ill her assertion, whilst our brother supported
you, saying, he had been hiding with you, and that, being tired, you had
both remained hidden in one place until the bell warned you that the game
was over,that place being a washhouse in a distinct part of the premises
from the cow or fold yard, into which we believed we had chased you.
G. M. (1I,e1l DIOKINS.)
[Neither of these percipients has ever had any other visual hallucination.1
Mrs. Hawkins continues :-
The seoond appearance of my "double" WIlolJ ill the spring'(February or
March) ofl847, at Leigh Rectory in E88ex, my father, the Rev. Robert
Eden (now Primus of Scotland), being rector of the parish.
The person who saw it WIlolJ the nurserymaid. I am not quite sure of her
name, but if, IIoIJ I tlunk, she was a certain " Caroline," she has been dead
many years, therefore I can only give you my own very vivid recollections of
her story, told with tears of agitation.
But first! should mentioll that I had the mumpfl at that time, and was
going about with my head tied up, and the only other person in the house
who had it WIlolJ my little brother, nearly 10 years younger than myself, who
could not p088ibly he mistaken for me.
On the first floor of Leigh Rectory there is a passage which runs the length
of the house, terminated at one end by the door of a room that was then the
nursery. One morning about 10.30 "Caroline" canle out of the nursery,
and walking along the pllolJSage had to pllolJS a doorway opening on to the
stairs which led down into the front hall. As she passed, she glanced down
and saw me (conspicuous by the whlte handkerchief round my head, and
facing her) come out of the drawing-room door and walk across the comer
of the hall to the library. She proceeded along the passage, and coming to
the foot of the attic stairs met our maid, who said to her, "Do you know
where Miss Eden is 1 I want to go to her room." "Oh yes," answered
"·Caroline" "I just saw her go into the library." So they came together up to
my room, which was one of the attics, and found me sitting there, where I had
been for at least halfMan-hour, writing a letter. After a moment's pause
of astonishment, they fled, tllough I called to them to come in. When I went
downstairs a few minutes afterwards and reached the passage, I saw in the
nursery a group of maids, all looking so perturbed that, instead of proceeding
down the front stairs, I went on to the nursery and asked what was the
matter. But as no Olle answered, and I saw the nursery maid was crying,
I thought they had been quarrelling, and went away quite unco1lscious .that
it was on my account they were 80 disturbed. Lucy HA.WKINS.
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] JouI·ttalof Soeiet!! .for P8!!cMcal Rl'8Carcl,. 473
------
The following account is from Mrs. Hawkins's son :-
June 20th, 1885.
In the autumn of 1877, I was living",t my father's house, Beyton Rectory,
Bury St. Edmunds. .
The household consisted' of my father. mother. three sisters, and three
maid-servants. One moonlight night I was sleeping in my room, and had
been asleep some hl)urs when I was awakened by hearing a noise close to my
head, like the chinking of money. My waking ideo., therefore, was that a
mal~ was trying to take my money out of my trousers pocket, which lay on
a chair close to the head of my bed. On opening my eyes, I was astonished
to see a tooman, and I well remember thinking with sorrow that it must be
()ne of our servants who was trying to take my money. I mention these two
thoughts to show that I was not thinking in the slightest degree of my
mcther. When my eyes had become more accustomed to the light, I was
more than ever surprised to see that it was my motJ&er, dressed in a peculiar
silver-grey dress. which she had originally got for a fancy ball. She was
standing with both hands stretched out in iront of her as if feeling her way,
and in tha.t m:l.nner moved slowly away from me, passing in front of the
dressing-t:l.ble, which stood in front of the curtained window, through which
the moon threw a certain amount of light. Of course my idea all this time
was that she was walking in her sleop. On getting beyond the table she
was lost to my sight in the darkness. I then sat up in bed, listening but
hearing nothing, and on peering through the d:J.rkness saw that the door,
which was at the foot of my bed, and to g'3t to which she would have had to
pau in front of the light, was still shut. I then jumped out of bed, struck
a light, and instead of finding my mother at the far end of the room. as I
expected, found the room empty. I then for the first time supposed that it
was an "appearance," and greatly dreaded that it signified her death.
I might add that I had, at that time, quite forgotten that my mother had
ever appeared to anyone before, her last appea.rance having been about the
y.mr 1847, three years before I was born.
EDWARD HAWKINS.
In answer to inquiries Mr. E. Hawkins says :-1 can assure you that
neither before nor since that time have I ever had any experience of the sort.
L.-2302.-An po
The second narrative is from the Rev. T. L. Williams, Vicar of
Porthleven, near Helston.
AUY11$1st, 1884.
Some years ago (I cannot give you any date, but you may rely on the
facts), on one occasion when I was absent from home, my wife awoke one
morning, and to her surprise and alarm saw my baw).oll standing by the bed-
side looking at her. In her fright she covered her face with the bedclothes,
and when she ventured to look again the appearance was gone. On another
()ccasion. when I was not absent from home, my wife went one evening to
week-day evensong, and on getting to the churchyard gate, which is about
40 yards er so from the church door, she saw me, as she supposed, coming
from the church in surplice and stole. I came a little way, she says, and
Digitized by Google
474 JOttnml f!f Societ!1 for P8ychical Rel/earch. [July, 1885.
turned round the corner of the building, when she lost sight of me. The
idea suggested to her mind was that I Willi coming out of the church to meet
afunera.l at the gate. 1 Willi at the time in church in my place in the choir,
where she was much surprised to see me when she entered the building. I
have often endeavoured to shake my wife's belief in the reality of her having
seen what she thinks she saw. In the former case I have told her "You
were only half awake and perhaps tlreaming." But she always confidently
asserts that she was broa.«l awake, and is quite certain that she saw me. In
the latter case she is equally confident.
My daughter also has often told me and now repeats the story, thatone
day when living at home before her marriage she was passing my study door,
which was ajar, and looked in to see if I was there. She saw me sitting in
my chair, and as she caught sight of me I stretched out my arms, and drew
my hands across my eyes, a familiar gesture of mine, it appears. I was not.
ill the house at the time, but out in the village. This happened many years
ago, but my wife remembers that my daughter mentioned the circumstance
to her at the time.
Now,nothing wl18teveroc.:urred at or about tlle thlles of tllese appearances
to give any mcaning to t.hem. I was not ill, nor had anything unusual
happened to me. I canllot pretend to offer any explanation, but simply state
the facts IlII told me by persons 011 whose words I can depend.
There is one otller thing which I may as well mention. A good many
year ago there was a very devout young woman living in my parish who used
to spend much of her spare time in church in meditation and prayer. She
used to assert that she frequently saw me standing at the altar, when I was
certainly not there in the body. At first she was alarmed, bnt after seeing
the appearance again and again she ce.'Uied to feel anything of terror. She
is now a Sister of Mercy at Hanolulu.
THOMAS LocKYER WILLIAMS.
Po1'thleven Vicarage, Helston.
June 20th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-As requested, I write to. tell you what I saw on two occa-
sions. I am sorry that I am unable to give you the dates, even approxi-
mately, as many years have passed since I had the experiences referred to.
011 one occasion my husband was absent in Somersetshire, and on waking
one morning I distinctly saw him standing by my bedside. I was much
alarmed, and instinctively covered my face with the bedclothes. My frienda
hav", often tried to persuade me that I was not broad awake, but I am quite
certain that I was, and that I really saw my husband's appearance.
The other occasion was on a certain evening I was going to church, and
on getting to the churchyard gate, which is about. 20 yards from the
door of the church, I saw my husband come out of the church in his surplice,
walk a little way towards me, and then turn oft' round the church. I thought.
nothing of it until on entering the church I was startled at seeing him in his
I)lace in the choir, about to -conduct the service. It was then broad day-
light, and I am quite sure that I saw the appearance. Nothing whatever
occurred after either of these appearances, and, of course, I cMt in no way
account for them.--I remain, dear sir, yours faithfully,
EMMA WILLIAMS.
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] JOUl'lIal Qf Societ.1f for PsycMcal Research. 475
In reply toO the queBtion whether hia wife or daughterhad ever experienced
any other hallucination of the Benaea, Mr. WilliamB replieB confidently in the
negative.
We have a good ma.ny cases where a hallucination, suggesting a.
particular person's presence, has occurred at or shortly before the time
when that person was expected to appear in the flesh-e.g., at about the
time of his usual return home in the evening. We regard all such
hallucinations as purely lIubjective, and caused by the percipient's
attitude of expectancy. But, of course, it is a different matter when
the hallucination falls at a. time when the person is actua.lly about to
arrive, but his arrival is tme;,;pected. We have a few visual cases of this
type, and the following auditory case. The examples are not sufficiently
numerous for Ull to be sure that we have in them a genuine type of tele-
pathic action. In ordinary telepathic cases, the agent is doing or suffer-
ing something much more remarkable than merely returning home.
But still the cases in question mal;:e a little group which is worthy of
record. "
The account here given is from Mr. J. Stevenaon, of 28, Prospect Street,
Gateshead.
L.-2303.-An pn
.Ap1·il20tlt, 1885.
During the months of May and June, 1881, my brother was staying with
us. He went out one Sunday night, between I) and 6 o'clock. He did not
say what time he would return, but his time waB generally about 10 p.m.
About 7 o'clock, while I was reading by the window, and Mrs. S. by the
fire, all being quiet, I heard a voice aay, "David is coming." I instantly
turned to Mrs. S., asking what she said. She aaid, "I have not spoken a
word." I told her that I heard BOme one aay that "David is coming." I
then thought I had imagined it; but, 10 and behold! in less than three
minutes in he came, <Iuite unexpected. I was surprised, but did flot men-
tion anything to him about it. The position of the house prevented us
from seeing him until just about to enter the house. He was in good
health, as we all were at j;he time. This is a candid statement of the facts.
I shall be glad to give any further information if required.
Jos. STEVENSON.
P.S.-Mrs. S. tells me that I did mention it to him, but all he said
was, "That's strange."
28, Prospect Stl'eet, Gateshead.
May 29th, 1885. '
DEAR SIR,-In reference to my husband's letter of April 20th, I have
pleasure in testifying to the accuracy of his account sent you on the above
date, and of him draWing my attention to the fact at the tinle mentioned.-
I remain, yours truly,
SERENA STEVENSON.
Digitized by Google
476 Journal of Societ,1/ .for Psychical Researclt. [July, 1885.
L.-2304.-A8 po and Ad pn
The following account is from an informant who desires that her
name and address may not be published, as she lIas a nea.r relation who
would much object to their appearance. We learn from her that she has
not had any hallucinations which there is reason to regard as merely
subjective.
Febm,ary 20th, 1885.
When a resident neJr Portsmouth, during a visit made by my late mother
to London in the Bummer of 1858, the year preceding her death, I distinctly
saw her walking in the back garden at noon-day. I was not at the time
thinking of her, but happening to look from my chamber window, I beheld
this figure, which, but for my parent's absence from home, I Bhould have
supposed her veritable Belf. This incident led me to conjecture something
was amiss, and this idea was confinned when the next morning's post brought
me information that my mother had sustained a severe fall and was BO badly
hurt that at first fatal reBults were feared, and at the moment I fancied I
saw her, her thoughts were bent on telegraphing for me to go to her.
A few years prior to this, when a girl of 16, an engagement was fonned
between myself and a young naval officer, about to aail for the African
coast. He had promised my mother and Belf that he would write us from
"ABcension." It chanced, some time after his departure, I accompanied a.
friend in a long country walk, when all at once a Atrange feeling pOBSeSaed
me that this young officer was near. I seemed to feel the clasp of his hand
upon my wrist, yet I aaw nothing, I only felt a presence. My companion
asked why I looked so pale. I made an evasive reply, and on returning home
told my mother that" Tom was dead!" She tried to laugh away my fa.ncy,
nevertheless she noted the date of the occurrence, and when a brother of my
own, then homeward bound from the coast of Africa, arrived, the first words
he spoke, after an exchange of greetings, were, "Oh, that poor fellow you
sent letters by for me is dead! He died three days sail from Ascension and
is buried on the Island." M. W.
I cannot, owing to the many years that have passed since the occurrences
mentioned by myself, furnish any dates; my mother calculated that the
singular impression I received was as near as possible to the time of our
young friend's death. My brother who brought the tidings has been deceased
.severalvears.
L.-2305.-Ad pn
From Mr. Arthur Ireland,of the School House, South Witham,
llear Grantllanl.
JanuanJ 5th, 1884.
About 14: years ago, about 3 o'clock one summer's afternoon I was
passing in front of Trinity Church, Upper King Street, Leicester when I saw
on the opposite side of the streeta very old playmate, who, havinf.t left the
town to learn BOme business, I had for somp. time 10'lt sight of. I thought it
<lddhe took 110 notice of me, and while following him with my eyes deli-
berated whether I should accost him or not. I called after him by name,
and was somewhat surprised. at not being able to follow him any furthpr, or
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] .Tournal Qf Societ!/jor P8!fchical Re8earch. 471
to say into which house he had gone, for I felt persuaded he had gone into
one. The next week I was informed of his somewhat sudden death at
Burton-on-Trent, at about the time lhad felt certain he was passing in front
of me. What struck me most at the time was that he should take no notice
of me, and that he should go along so noiselessly and disappear so suddenly,
but that it was E.P. I had seen I never for one moment doubted. I have
always looked upon this as a hallucination, but why it should have occurred
at that particular time, and to me, I could never make out.
ARTHUR IRELAND.
To inquiries, Mr. Ireland replies :-
(1) To the present time the instance related is the only one of the
kind that has occurred to me.
(2) I mentioned the incident of having met E. P. to my mother, and
remarked on the seeming slight of his not acknowledging me. Of course,
when the news of his death came, mother remarked that I was mistaken,
and although not feeling convinced, I had to assent to such a seemingly
apparent truism. My mother hns since died, or we might have had this
added testimony.
(3) I am thankful to say that my eyesight is good, and I remember no '
instance of mistaking one person for 'another. Of course, I could not swear
that there was no mistake, but I do assert that I, without knowing he had
left the town, and with nothing to make me think of him, was suddenly
certain that E. P. was coming towards me on the opposite side of the street;
that I watched him attentively for any sign of recognition; that I called
after him, and could never explain his disappearance, or account for the un-
natural noiselessness of his movements or the suddenness of his appearance.
I conclude by assuring you that so far I have been of a very realistic tum
of mind, and am not aware that I am in the least superstitious or even
imaginative. That which I have written is the truth, according to my ex-
perience, placed at your disposal to help, if of any service, in the unrav~l­
ling of that for which at present there seems no adequate explanation.
ARTHUR IRELAND.
Mr. Ireland adds that the date of the death was October 1st, 1868.
L.-2300.-Ad Pn--(Borderland.)
Mrs. Scott Moncriefi' gives us the following account of the appari-
tion of a. dying sister-in-law to her husband, now dead.
May 20th, 1885.
The circumstances of the dream or vision, as far as I can remember at
this dist;ance of time, were these. A. awoke me one night, and said, "I
have had a strange dream about S., and I fancied I saw her standing at
the foot of the bed ; indeed, I had to rub my eyes to convince myself that
she was not really there." He fell asleep, and again dreamt the same, and
this made a powerful impression upon his mind, with almost a depressing
effect. He was in perfect health at the tinle, and of a thoroughly practical
nature; not at all given to sentimentality. He had also no reason to believe
that S. was in frail health. Some weeks after, the news came of her death,
and by comparing dates, and aJIowing for the difference of time between
Digitized by Coogle
478 Journal q/ Socwt!1 fol' P8!lcMcal Re8earch. [July, 1885.
India and Scotland, the event must have taken place during the period of
these dreams; but whether at tile time of the first or the second, I cannot
remember. This happened on the 7th September, 1852.
ELIZABETH H. S. MONCRIEFF.
I very well remember my brother, the late Major A. P. Scott Moncrieff
(whose widow has written the preceding narrative) telling me of this appari-
tion, as he believed it to have been, of our sister Susan, after the news
reached us of her death in Edinburgh, on September 7th, 1852. I was
living in Calcutta at that date; my brother was with Ills regiment at
Dinapore. In the month of November, I was on a visit to his house in
Hazareebagh, where he was then living with his wife; and it was then tllat
he told me of the apparition. As he was a man of a very unromantic,
practical character, always ready to ridicule a ghost story, I was the more
struck with the depth of the impression left on his mind by the vividness of
tile apparition, as he believed it to have been, which had led to his taking a.
note of the date in writing.
He told me that after having been asleep for a time, during tile night of
that date (which must have been the 7th September), he awoke, feeling the
heat rather trying; that he saw, by a light burning in the room, the punkah
swinging above the bed, and then saw our sister Susan standing at the foot
of the bed, gazing at him very earnestly. That he was so surprised, he sat
up, rubbed his eyes, and looked again, seeing her still there. That he
exclaimed, .. 0, Susan!" (I think he added, "what are you doing here 1" but
I am not certain that these were his words; though I am certain that he did
utter some such words after saying, "0, Susan !") That his wife awoke
on hearing ltilll speak, and said, "What is it, Alick 7" (or words of similar
import) but tllat he, fearing lest in the state of health she was then in, it
might prove injurious to her to be told what he believed he had seen, said
he had awakened from a dream, but did not tell her how fully he was con-
vinced he lv\d been awake when he saw the apparition of his sister, wliich
had disappeared before his wife had spoken to him.
R. SCOTT MONCRIEFF.
Miss Scott Moncrieff, of 44, Shooter's Hill Road, S.E., corroborates as
follows :-
1 hoard the same account from my brother, Major Scott Moncrieff, on
his return from India.
MARY ANNE SCOTT MONCRIEFF.
L.-2308.-Ad pn
Mrs. Passingham, of Milton, Cambridge, sends the following account from
tile nurse who had been atbending her daughter, llrs. Gillig. Mrs. Pasaing-
ham says:-
The fact of hor having quarrelled with her favourite sister, and
her dying without a reconciliation affects her deeply, and· she had telU'S
in her eyes as slle told me tile story. She decZarlllJ she was not asleep, and it
was not a dream, she had only just put out the light and had not got into
.bed.
Digitized by Google
3uly. 1885.J Joternalqf Soclet,l/ /01' PS!JcMcal Researelt. 479
From Mrs. Walsh, 107, Queen's Crescent, Haverstock Hill.
May 6th, 1884.
On October 24th, 1877, I was in London, and after preparing to go to bed,
I had just extinguished the light when I heard the voice of mysister, who was
then in Wolverhampton, call me by my name, "Joanna." I instantly
answered, "Yes, 'polly." The voice was lo\v, almosta whisper, but perfectly
clear, and I was so sure that she spoke that I turned to the part of the room
from which the voice came. Again I he3l'd the voice, and after that, once
more, making three times in all.
When I realised that itcould not possibly be my sister I felt-not exactly
frightened-but awed, and I could not sleep till near morning for thinking
of it. The next day I heard from my family that they had had a telegram
to say that she was dangerously ill, and some one was to go to her. Another
sister went and found her dead, and the time of her death agreed exactly
with the time when I heard the voice. She died very suddenly of mortifica-
,tion, and I had not the least idea she was ill; also, ~e had become estranged
from each other, although we were exceedingly fond of each other, and I
think that is the reason she spoke to me.
JOANNA WAL<;H.
Mal/12th.
In answer to your first question I must tell you that at the time of my
sist,er's death I was with almost entire strangers and therelore do not think I
mentioned whatI had heard to anyone until alter I had a letter saying she
was ill, and almost directly afterwards a telegram saying she was dead.
To explain clearly, ,when I had the letter saying she was ill, I mentioned
it to my sisterwho brought the letter; then when I had the telegram to say
she was dead I found that the time corresponded exactly with the time I heard
her voice.
This is the only experience of the kind that I ever had.
[This is in answer to the question whether she had ever had any other
hallucination of the senses.]
I didn't for one moment doubt whose voice it was as I immediately
answered by name.
J. WAL'lII.
L.-2309.-Ad pn
'From Mrs. Stent, living at 14, Singapore Road, Ealing Dean-a former
valued servant of Miss Craigie. of 8, McGill College Avenue, Montreal, to
whom she gave a completely cOllcordantaccount,which we have seen.
June 1st, 1885.
Miss Craigie has, written to. me to ask me to send you the
account of Elizabeth calling for Mr. Reggy and me. She called him and
me. I was not dreaming, for she called "Reggy" and " Cook" so plainly
I could not rest in bed; and I told the housemaid, E. Morris, and we
wondered what it meant. I could not go that day, but I went the next,
and the, porter told me she died the morning before at 20 minutes
to 4. 'I went to the Infirmary the day she was buried, and the old dame
in· the bed next to hers told me she called for Reggy and Cook with her last
Digitized by Google
480 JOllrnnl Qf Soeiet!llor PlfJlckical Re8etlrch. [July, 1885..
breath. It troubled me much, for we had been friends for years, and I went
to see her as of!;en as I could. I never had anything of the kind happen f;o
me before, and she called us BO plain. I have often wondered what it could
mean, and I shall never forget it. E. SUNT.
In reply to inquiries. Mrs. Stent says :-
J1tII1.e 7th, 1885.
I send you the name of my dear friend ; it was Elizabeth Membrey.
The day she died was October18th,at ChelseaInfirm..'\ry,near the Consumption
Hospital at South Kensington; but I am sorry I can tell you nothing about
Elizabeth Morris, having lost sight of her. Elizabeth has been dead four
years this October. She was my dearest friend, and was more to me than a
8ister, but was no relation to me-(mly my dear friend. I think the bond
of sympathy was very strong between us; only death could break it. We
told our troubles to one another; for years past we did not do anything
without talking about it first. Mr. Reggy was the BOn of the lady where we
lived in service together, and she was very fond of him; and he went to the
Infirmary to see her as often as he could find time.
L.-2310.-Ad pn
From Mrs. Wyld, of The Willows, Ellesmere, Salop.
May 10th.
I would very gladly write the short statement you ask for, but though
to my own mind it is pretty conclusive, still I feel that to outsiders it is
wanting in two important details. (1) I mentioned the fact of hearing the
voice to no one at the time, and (2) I could not tell whose voice it was.
It was on Thursday evening, January lOth, 1884, that I was sitting alone
in the house reading, and it seemed strange, and still not strange, to hear
my name called with a sort of eager entreaty.
Shortly after the others came in. I was leaving for Ellesmere next day,
and in tbe bustle of departure I thought no more of the circumstance. It
was only when coming down to breakfast on the Saturday morning and
finding the letter telling of E.'s death that I instantly recalled the
circumstances, and saw that the time and day corresponded with when they
knew she must have sliplJCd out and down to the river..
I wonder I did not associate it with her. for she had written me BOme
very pitiable letters bllforehand. MARY WYLD.
For the sake of my dead friend's relations, I should hardly like to give
very identifying details (if for publication), as her death was a particularly
sad one.
We were school-fellows together for nearly tllree years and great friends;
- and she had written to me previous to her death in 110 terribly depressed state,
but I had not the least idea her mind was affected. I never have had a
hallucination of the senses at any other time. It was about 8 o'clock in the
evening, I faney, when I heard the voice. She was not found till 2 o'clock
the next morning when the tide turned on the- river; she then had been dead
several hours, having slipped out, I fancy, between 7 and 9 the previous
evening. MARy WYLD.:
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] Journal oj Societylor Psychical Researcn. 481
L.-2311.-Ad po
Mr. W. Colman, of 44, Finsbury Circus, E.C., writing to us on May
10th, 1885, enclosed the following account. He had heard the particulars
about a fortnight before, when staying in apartments which Mrs. Longley
lets.
Mrs. Longley, of 4, Liverpool Lawn, R&msgate, a respectable married
woman, wife of a small tradesman, both resident upwards of 35 years in the
lown, states :-
My eldest son, Pilcher, in February, 1884, was one of tlle crew of the
"Young Eliza," cutter, of Grimsby, employed in collecting fish from the
fishing fleet, and was then 28 years old.
On the 10th of that month, at 3.10 a.m., ho was washod overboard in a
stOl'lU, and drowned.
On that mornin~ I was restless, and being unable to sleep, determined to
wateh how long the moon would take to cross a certain pane of glass in
the window, and while so doing hcard a voice three times distinctly call
" Mother."
Supposing my son George was at the door, I C3lled out several times,
c'Is that you, George 1 What do you want 1" waking my husband, to
whom I told what had occurred.
Having no reply, I got up, lit a candle, and went upstairs to George's
bedroom, and found him sleeping soundly, without any signs of having
recently been awake ,or moving.
Looking at the clock on the stairs I noticed it was 3.15 a.m.
Nine days after a telegram arrived, stating my eldest son had been
drownea on the morning referred to.
My hU'5band wentto Grimsby, saw the captain of the vessel, and ascer-
tained that Pilcher was washed overboard at the time stated, on a moonlight
night, and tllat his first cry was, "Mother t mother! mother ! save me for my
mother's sake I"
He swam for 15 minutes, calling out occasionally, much as at first, but
rescue was impouible.
The distance from Ramsgate to where he was drowned was over 200
miles.
He was a most affectionate son, and before going this voyage, had
promised me it should be his last.
[Mrs. Longley signa this account as correct.]
SARAH LoNGLEY.
her X mark.
11th June, 1885. Witneu, CHARLES E. TROUGHTON.
At my request Mr. G. A. Smith wrote to his friend Mr. C. E. Troughton,
second clerk in Cobb's Bank, Margate, asking himto interview Mrs. Lollgley,
and put some questions to her. Mr. Troughton writes:-
46, Addington Street, Margate,
June 14th, 1885_
In reply to the inquiry" did she tell anyone of the voice before she
heard of his death," she informed me tllat she mentioned the matter the
following morning to her husband and Bons, at the sarno time attaching no
Digitized by Google
482 Journal oj Society/or P81Jchical Research. [July, 1885.
particular importance to the voice she heard during the night, being still
under the impression it was her BOn George who had called her, whom she
thought was unwell. She also mentioned the matter to whoever "dropped
in" during the next few days, remarking at the same time she felt sure
somet.hing was •• about to happen," and then the affair was forgotten till a
telegram was received I) days aiterwards stating her son was drowned, which
led eventually to her ascertaining by letter that her son met his death on the
same night, and about the same hour that she heard the voice. Sho
stated the voice seomed to proceed from some one outside the door, and
most certainly addressed to her as if in supplication. She most distinctly
asserts the voice was not an impression proceeding from her owa miIJd, but
seemed to proceed from some person '()u~ide her bedroom door. Unfortu-
nately her husband and son were both away from home when I called, but
she assured me it would be useless for me to attempt to induce them to
corroborate her statement by signing the" document," as her husband in
particular had an aversion to puUing his name to anything of the kind.
She did not associate the voice she heard with that. of her son's at sea (nor
did she connect the dream with him in any way),fully believing it to proceed
from her son George. I asked was there any similarity between the voices
of her two lions, and why she fixed upon George when he was sleeping beside
her son Albert. Sho replied she knew it was not Albert who spoke because
he has a slight impediment in his speech, and as to its being "Pilcher's," she
was not thinking about him. I asked her if anything had transpired during
the day or days previous to remind her of her son at sea, to which she replied
in the negative.
C. E. TROUGHTON.
[It appears that this hallucination was unique in Mrs. Longley'S
experience.]
L.-2312.--Ad p.
From Mr. A. Jaffe, of 4, The Exchange, Balham, S.W.
May 28th, 1885.
After mentioning that ho married while abroad, and was staying with
his wife at Berlin, Mr. Jaffe continues: As soon as my parents had learned
of my arrival at Berlin, whore I had engaged furnished apartments, my
mother immediately came to see me and my foreign wife. She remained
with us for three days, and two days after her departure my father and sister
came to see us, staying also three days, and then returned home. My i-ife
and I, both young, in good health, and happy, were thoroughly enjoying
ourselves, and were free from all serious thought. About a week after my
father's departure, we (Illy wife and I), 1l3.ving been to a concert, arrived at
our rOOlllS about 11 o'clock at niglit, and went to bed at once, being tired.
My wife fell asleep almost immediately, and after a little while I also was in
the arms of Morpheus_ Soon after, however, I awoke suddenly, with all
my senses alive, as if I had slept for hours instead of only about 20 minutes,
and heard what is commonly called the death-watch ticking. I knew that it
could not be my gold repeater, for its spring was broken, and it did not go
therefore. I was well aware then that such ticking was caused by some
insects in the woodwork, and was not alarmed in the ver lilallt degree.
Jalr, 1881S.] Journal qf Society/or PS!lchical Research. 483
The noise continuing, however, for a long time, curiosity got. the
better of me, and I lit the candle, got softly out of bed, and tried to find
out in what part of the room the. ticking was. But the noise was like a
will-o'-the-wisp; when I went to one paTt of the room, it went to another.
I got at last tired of the hunt, and crept softly into bed. Nevertheless, I
must have disturbed my wife, for she said to me, in a half-conscious state,
"Alfy, your waooh is going!" I did not answer her, for I saw she was
asleep again aa soon as the words were spoken and I also slept soundly
till the morning. At breakfast my wife said, "" •.\lfy, I had such a funny
dream. I saw your mother with a handkerchief tied under the chin, making
such faces to me, and moving her jaws in a most extraordinary manner."
We both laughed, and went to dress for a drive to Charlottenburg. I was
the first dressed, and went into the sitting-room, waiting for my wife. A
knock at the door. It is the servant, handing me a telegram. It was from
my father and ran :
"Mother died last night. Letter to follow."
In the evening I received the letter, which stated among others :-
" Mother was paralysed, and had lost, for 6 hours before death, though
r,o consciousness, 'but the power of speech. All this time she struggled
fearfully to articulate, and the doctor tied, at last, her jaw with a cloth, tel
prevent her opening it. She died at 4: o'clock this morning."
ALFRED Jud.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Jaffe says :-
My first wife (here in question) is dead. She could not have stated, if
now alive, anything else than what I communicated to you. We both were
like one'heart and soul, we could read each other's thoughts, and it is; there-
fore, that I hold my evidence as if it were hers.
About her dreanl, I am sure she told me then all she knew, and I, in my
letter to you, have added nought nor omitted. No severest cross-examina-
tion could have disveiled anything more about it from her.
On the whole, my wife dreamt little, and when so, her dreams were
always" nonsense."
He adds:-
It was and is most decidedly a fact, clear of all hallucination, from which
sho was free at all times.
The ticking which I hoard, and my wife's dream, happened during the
hours of my mother's death-struggle. Letter and telegram I received on
tho day aftor the nocturnal occurronce.
I do not remember the exact date; but it was in the last week of
August, 1867.
If we accept the dream in tho above case as telepathic, thero would
be some ground for regarding the sounds as possibly a telepathic
hallucination of the rudimentary type. But they may, of course, have
been due to some undiscovered objective cause, and the coincidence, as
far as they are concerned, may have been accidental.
Digitized by Google
484 Journal ofSocietglor PsycMcal Research. [July, 1885.
L.-2318.
From the Rev. W. D. Wood Rees, of Holme Villa, Market Weighton.
May, 1885.
In 1874, when reading for college, ~ frequently visited a man named
William Edwards (of Llanrhidian, near Swansea), who was then seriously ill;
he often pl'Ofessed pleasure at, and benefit from, my ministrations. He at
length recovered so far as to resume work. I left the neighbourhood, and
amid new scenes and hard work, I cannot say that I ever thought of him.
I had been at college some 12 months, when one night, or rather early
morning, between 12 at midnight and 3 in the morning, I had a most vivid
dream. I seemed to hear the voice of the above-named Willia.m Edwards
calling me in earnest Jiones. In my dream I seellled to go to him and saw
him quite distinctly. I prayed with him and saw him die. When I awoke
the dream seemed intensely real, so much that I rema.rked the time, 3 a.m.
in the morning. I could not forgot it and told some college friend&. all
particulars. The next day I received a letter 'from my mother, with this
P.S. : "The bell is tolling; Hear poor William Edwards is dead." Oninquiry
I found that he did die between 12 and 3; that he frequently expressed, the
wish that I were with him. I had no idea. that he was ill.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Rees says:-
My dream took place between midnight and 3 in the morning. William
Edwards died toithin that time. My mother wrote her letter just after
breakfast, when the death-bell was tolling for him. Just at the time I
mentioned my dream to some friends. I received the letter either the
next night or the morning after., It was generally a two-days' post. I was
particular to inquire if the death took place the night of my dream; it did.
I have not the date of the occurrence, but can get it, no doubt, from inquiring
the date of the lnan's death. 1 had no object in making any note of it
then. The friends, I believe, were Rev. G. L. Rees, Howden, Rev. J. W.
Roberts (dead), aud, I think, the Rev. T. S. Cunningham; I will ask him.
I have on other occasions dreamt of deaths, but have not taken any trouble
to investigate them. I have sometimes dreamt I saw a person dying, and
then heard they were ill. The vividness and reality of the case I mention
caused me to take such notice of it.
The Rev. G. L. M. Rees corroborates as follows:-
Howden, East Yorkshire.
June 11th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-The statement made by my brother, the Rev. W. D. W.
Rees, relative to the death of William Edwards, is quite correct. I perfectly
remember his relating to me a dream respecting his de!l.tll, previous to the
intelligence reaching us a.t collegc.
I am, yours faithfully,
G. L. M. REEs.
L.-2314.-(possibly a clairvoyant dream.)
From Mr. Evans. Penalltan House, Richmond Road, Cardi1f.. Thc case
Digitized by Google
July, 1885.] Joternal of Society for Psycht'cal Resea,.c'~. 485
was procured for us by Miss A. G. M. Richards, of I, St. Andrew'. Crescent,
Ca.rdiff, who writes :-
May 7th, 1885.
Mr. Evans· is a man of undoubted veracity, and is known to a large circle
of friends, most of whom have heard of his remarkable experience, both from
himself and from his wife when living.
29th, April, 1885.
The following is an account of. a dream which was dreamt by the under-
signed.
R. EVANS.
On Palm Sunday morning, 15 years ago, I awoke with a start about 4:
o'clock, having dreamed that some one had been on the lawn in front of my
house and taken away. about 50 roots of wallHowers which I had in bloom,
and that the only thing left was a. portion of blossom which had dropped
near the entrance gate.
I at once related my dream to my wife, and afterwards slept until about 8
o'clock in the morning, when I awoke through the servant girl rapping at my
bedroom-door and shouting in an excited state, "A donkey has been on the
lawn and eaten up all the Howers."
I immediately got out of bed and looked out of the window,-and the first
object I saw was the bit of blossom by the gate where I had previously
seen it in my dream, and 1 found the border relieved of every root as I
had dreamed.
I have, ever since, felt satisfied that if I had got out of bed and looked
out of the window at the time I first awoke, I would have found the thief in
the act of taking away the Howers.
I should say that the gate was locked, so that it was impossible for any
animal to have done the mischief.
Mrs. Dyer, of 8, Pembroke Terra.ce, Cardiff, says :-
I have much pleasure in stating that Mrs. Evaus frequently spoke to me
of her husband's remarkable dreanl, adding that she had had it related to
her before its verification.
[Mr. Evans may have been anxious about his flowers, and the chief point,
evidentially, is the dropped" portion of blossom," which may, however, have
got read back into the dream after it was actually seen.]
L.-2315.
Headington Hill, Oxford.
Ma.y,1885.
On Saturday, May 5th, 1884, I drove into Oxford in an open landau
with my little boy and his nurse. On reaching the covered Market I got
out,leaving the nurse and child in the carriage, which remained in the High
Street.
It was my intention to go to a shop in the middle of the market, but
l1efore I reached it I became suddenly convinced: that s?methi~g had
Digitized by Google
486 Journal oj Societ!l for P81Jchical R68earch. [.July,1885.
happened to the child, and that the carriage was being closed. The feeling
was so strong that I stopped walking, and was about to turn round to go
and see what had happened, when I felt I was foolishly fanciful, and for
discipline's sake I decided to walk through the Market down a short street to
Exeter College, where I ha.d to leave a note, instea.d of driving there after
my visit to the Market, as I ba.d previously intended to do. I did this, and
then called at the shop, walking very fast all the time. I was nervously
anxious to see the carriago again.
When I reached the High Stl'eet I saw a crowd looking at the carriage,
which was closed, and on rea.ching it found that my little boy had fallen out
of it, on to the street, about 2 minutos after I had left him. The child had
been much frightened, a.nd a crowd having assembled the coachman closed
the carriage.
HENRIETTA WILLERT.
June Srd.
As regards my own experience, I can honestly say I never had before or
since such a strong feeling thatsometlring tval happening as that which ca.me
upon me just after I leftthe carriage. I have ha.d a presentintent thata thing
would happen (not always realised), but never that it was happening.
H.W.
L.-777.-An Pn
From the Rev. J. A. Macdonald, 19, Heywood Street, Cheetham, )Ianchester
When I was in Liverpool, in 1872, I heard from my friend, the late Rev.
W. W. Stamp, D.D., a remarkable story of the faculty of second sight
p088e88ed by the Rev. John Drake, of Arbroath, in Scotland. I visited
Arbroath in 1874, and recounted to Mr. Drake the 'lItory of Dr. Stamp,
wlrich Mr. Drake assented to as correct, and he called his faculty" clairvoy-
ance." Subsequently, in 1881, I hn.d the facts particularly verified by Mrs.
Hutcheon, who was herself the subject of tlris clairvoyance of Mr. Drake.
When the ~ev. John Drake was minister of the Wesleyan Church at
Aberdeen, Miss J e88ie Wilson, the daughter of one of the principal lay office
bearers in that church, sailed for India, to join the Rev. John Hutcheon,
M.A., then stationed as a missionary at Bangalore, to whom she was under
engagement to be married. Mr. Drake, one morning, came down to Mr.
Wilson's place of busineBB and said, "Mr. Wilson, I alll happy to be ablc to
inform you that Jessie has ha.d a pleasant voyage, and is now safely arrived
in India." Mr. Wilson said, .. How do you know that, Mr. Drake 1" to
which Mr. Drake replied. " I saw it." "But," said Mr. Wilson, "it cannot
be, for itis a fortnight too soon. The vessel has never ma.de the voyage
within a fortnight of the tinte it is now since Je88ie sailed." To this Mr.
Drake replied: "Now you jet it down in your book that John Drake called
this morning and told you that Jessie has arrived in India this morning after
a pleasantvoyage." Mr. Wilson accordingly made the entry, which Mrs.
Hutcheon assured me she saw, when she returned home, and that it ran
thus;. "Mr. Drake. Jessie arrived India morning of ·June 5th, 1860."
Digitized by Google
Joly,I885.] Jourilal oj Soci.ety jor Psychical Re8earch. 487
This turned out 'to have been literally the case. The ship had fair winds all
the way. and made a quicker passage by a fortnight than ever she had made
before.
The above account was sent by Mr. Macdonald to Mr. Drake for
verification, and the following reply received from the Rev. €rawshaw
Hargreaves ;-
Wesleyan Manse, Arbroath.
April 29th, 1885.
My DEAR SIR,-Mr. Drake is sorry your communication of the 2nd inst.
has been so long unanswered; but two days after receiving it he had a
paralytic seizure, which has not only confined him to bed, but taken from
him the use of one side.
R e now desires me to answer your inquiries, and to say that the account,
which you enclosed and which he now retnrns to you, is correct, except that
he has no recollection of ever calling it "clairvoyance." It was neither a
"dream" nor a "vision," but an impression that he received between the
hours of 8 and 10 in the morning, when his mind was as clear as ever it was,
an impression which he believes was given him by God for the comfort of the
family. Moreover this impression was so clear and satisfactory to himself
that when Mr. 'Vilson said "It cannot be," Mr. Drake replied, "You jot it
down," as warmly as if his statement of any ordinary circumstance had been
doubted by a friend.
Mr. Drake hopes these particulars will be enough for your purpose.-
Believe me, dear sir, yours very truly,
C. HARGREAVES.
The following is 'MrII. Hutcheon's account of the incident, received quite
independently ;-
Weston.super-Mare.
FebrtuJ/nJ 20th, 1885.
The facts are simply these. I sailed for India on March 3rd, 1860, in
the" Earl of Hardwicke," a good, but slow, sailing-vessel. About 16 weeks
were usually allowed for the voyage, so that we were not due in Madras till
about the middle of June. Our voyage, however, being an uncommonly
rapid one, we cast anchor in the roads of Madras on the morning of June
5th, taking our friends there quite by surprise.
On this same morning, my former pastor, an able and much esteemed
Wesleyan minister, called on my father at an unusually early hour, when the
following conversation passed ;-
"Why, Mr. D., what takes you abraad at this early hour 1"
"I have come to bring you good news, Mr. W. Your daughter, Jessie,
has reached India tIris murning, safe and well."
" That would indeed be good news, if we could believe it; but you forget
that the ship is not due at Madras before the middle of J una. Desides, how
could you get to know that1"
"Such, however, is the fact," replied Mr. D., and, seeing my fa.ther's
incredulous look, he added; "You do not believe what I say, Mr. W., but
just take a note of this date."
Digitized by Google
488 Jourllal of Society.for P8!1cllical Research. [Jul1,l885.
To satisfy him, my father wrote in his memo. book: "Rev. J. D. and
Jessie. Tuesday, 5th June, 1860."
In due time, tidings confirming Mr. D.'s statement arrived, greatly to
the astonishment of my friends. He, however, manifested no surprise, but
simply remarked, "Had I not not known it for a fact, I certainly should
not have told you of it."
These particulars I received by letter at the time, and on our return
home, 7 years later, we heard it from my father's own lips. He is no
longer with us, but the above are the plain facts as he ga.ve them, and the
little memo. in his handwriting, which he gave me as a curiosity, lies
before me now.
J.H.
In answer to inquiries Mrs. Hutcheon adds:-
March 23rd.
I felt inclined to smile at the idea that I could possibly be mistaken as
to a date so memorable in my life's history, and immediately preceding my
marriage. However, to render assurance doubly sure, I have referred to
both my husband's diary and my own, in each of which lily landing in India.
on the 5th of June has an important place.
The entry made by my husband is as follows: "N.B.-5th June, 1860 ;
a memorable d.'\y! The'Hardwicke' has arrived. What a quick voyage:
Miss Wilson and mission party well."
JESSIE HUTCHKON.
Mr. Macdonald tells us that he believes Mr. Drake had many such
experiences, but that he found him so reticent that he despaired of gettiug
an account of them from him.
Inquiries on this point elicited, we regret to say, the following reply from
Mr. Hargreaves:-
May 29th, 1885.
Mr. Drake, of whom you inquire in your letter of the 22nd, died
on the 18th inst. I have made inquiries but do not hear of any otllercircum-
stances that can be reported to your Society. If he had been spared I am
sure Mr. Drake would have given all the help in his power to such a society,
but he has gone from us.
Digitized by Google
