{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_m_nde_4725.html","mytitle":"Mary M NDE 4725","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary M NDE 4725  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2390 Mary M NDE 4725  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had just given birth to my first son. I had been diagnosed with toxemia. I was in a bed in a hospital room. Two orderlies came in and tried to get me out of bed to empty my bladder. I said I could not get up so they lifted me out of the bed and put me on my feet. I immediately fell to the floor. I left my body and floated to the ceiling. I could see the orderlies and a nurse around me. They were saying no blood pressure, no pulse - all the while, I thought this was hilarious. Then I thought I must be dead, I am still thinking, I am laughing without a body, I am still here!!! Then I was in a black place of no light, a void. I was concerned but not scared. Then I felt a rushing feeling and into the brightest most beautiful, loving light. Words cannot describe the love I felt. I said I want to stay here forever. I felt several presences in front of me, but I all I saw was light - I was the light. They said, 'You cannot stay here.' I said, 'Please, please, I don't want to return.' They said, 'You have a child.' I said, 'My mom will take care of him and so will his father!' They said, 'He needs you!!!' At that moment I was being pulled, like being sucked into a vacuum, and bam!! I was in my body again! When I got close to my body, I heard the nurse say, 'Get the EPI.' I slammed into my body with a great sinking feeling! I was sad and depressed for several days. My life changed on that day forever. I no longer fear death. I strive to do what is right by GOD! When I was in the place of light, I felt all of the negative parts of me float away. I did not care about leaving my new son or my life behind. Everything of this world just fell away from me. The only thing left was pure JOY!! The real me. I feel I must tell everyone that there is no death - only pure JOY and life!!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12-31-1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the light!!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the light!!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE, LOVE and JOY, JOY!! No words in the human language can describe my emotions!!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can feel others and know what they are thinking, I talk to spirits, have dreams that come true, I can find missing items. I know that we are all one, even the rocks and stones!!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The light - the feeling in the light - the LOVE!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a couple of years before I shared. I was afraid of what others would say. Now I share with people who are sick or dying, and persons closest with me. If the matter comes up in conversation, I will share my experience. Some people don't believe me. They don't say so, but I can feel them!! Some people are truly interested, and those who are dying are grateful and inspired!!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a real experience. I tried to feel this again and again. I was depressed that I could not feel this as intensely. It helps with my meditation now. I can remember and visualize myself back into the light!!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real! I don't care what others say, or what I read or hear about it being chemicals in the brain!! I KNOW IT WAS REAL!!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During meditation or just after, I feel disconnected with the world, and in a state of grace! One time I was walking through a hemlock forest and seemed to float above myself. This was very strange!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is no death!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_m_nde_4725.html