{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_lu_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary Lu R NDE 265","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary Lu R NDE 265  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary Lu R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1392 Mary Lu R NDE 265  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember going through a darkness. I have trouble going into dark places, even in a storm I have trouble going into our basement. This darkness wasn't threatening or frightening, it actually felt comfortable and safe. Then I went into the 'light', I put emphasis on this because I haven't words to express how this light made me feel. There seemed to be serenity, peace, happiness, everything right with the world. I've told others multiply your most happiest feelings, your most contented feelings, times a hundred million; and the feelings I had doesn't even come close. My grandmother (on my mother's side) met me and told me that God wasn't through with me yet. He still had something left for me to do and that I had to go back. I feel I really didn't really want to; but God (or whoever the supreme being is) is most powerful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  JUNE OF 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was involved in a car accident and had to be resuscitated five times at Wesley Hospital, Wichita, Kansas. My grandmother, who had died, sent me back, telling me God still had something left for me to do.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was clinically dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just my grandmother's voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Darkness, but a safe darkness, into a brilliant and wonderful light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother met me in the light. She told me that God wasn't finished with me and that I had to go back.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light that made me feel safe and everything good.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, hope, contentment, serenity, being not afraid, being safe.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I have a feeling of being privileged to know there is a home after death and that I will be going there eventually.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My grandmother told me I had to return because God still had something left for me to do for him.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer attend an organized church; I have no tolerance for people who want to tell me how to believe in my God. I also have let a lot of anger go. I don't flare like I use to, I seem to choose things to get angry about a little better than before. Most things, that would have made me angry before, are not that important. I just choose more carefully.  
   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At first, it was hard to talk to anyone about the experience, until I was able to rationalize it within my own framework. I took a death and dying class in college and was able then to talk about my experience. It took me about five years before I would talk about it to anyone other than my family and closest friends. Now I will talk if the topic is brought up, I don't bring it up.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to have acquired a way of reading people. Not from anything, anyone says, just from their demeanor. I feel I am more sensitive to people than I ever was before this experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was being allowed to see what afterlife is like; I really can't come up with a worst part. It truly was a life changing situation for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first, I could only talk about it to family members, gradually letting close friends know. Now I can talk about it at the drop of a hat. If the topic is brought up, I will relate my own experience. I have a friend who claims to be an atheist, and I know my story has brought doubt into his belief. We occasionally talk about death. I also am not afraid of death anymore.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_lu_r_nde.html