{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary L NDE 2073","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary L NDE 2073  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						523  Mary L NDE  2073  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  While riding my bicycle, I stopped at the top of a wooden slatted bridge. I decided to ride on down to the concrete walk. The slats grabbed my front tire and I thought uh oh. I tried to grab the railings and kick the bike away from me. I opened my eyes to the most beautiful brightly lit place - green grass, a pond/lake trees but this light eclipsed all. I looked around and realized I was sitting on a man's lap, who was dressed in white robes. He had dark hair. At first, I thought it was my deceased father in his younger years. Then I thought it was my first husband who had passed on in 1981. Then I knew it was Jesus. He held me and comforted me. No words were spoken but the love and peace. Then I heard yelling from far away. It was my then boyfriend calling for help. I woke up to little or no pain. I had broken my right hip, but didn't know it till later at the hospital. The white light stayed with me around me through the next few days, maybe a total of five to seven days. Also while in Jesus' care, he just kept patting my shoulder/back as if I were a child who needed comfort.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 4,2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident     Direct head injury    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Every sense was heightened. Although I do not recall sense of smell and there wasn't any speech needed. I just knew.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized it was Jesus who held and comforted me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity. Bright light, and looking back I had perfect eyesight (I am terribly nearsighted), everything was solid.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I 'heard with my thoughts. Hard to explain.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was like I just opened my eyes to bright light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt the presence of 'others' in background. My father, my husband and Jesus. Yes, I knew them. No words spoken just love and caring.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Extremely bright whitish yellowish light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     a place with green grass, pond/lake ,trees just beautiful  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pace, unconditional love, warmth, kindness, a feeling like I was where I belonged, I sensed 'others' watching.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have trouble communicating. Some people just don't seem to hear or understand what I'm saying. I married and then divorced my then boyfriend at time of the accident. I seem to know what people are really saying. Sort of reading between the lines.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Knowing what words would be spoken on TV and radio before spoken. Meeting complete strangers who seemed gravitated to meet me.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that Jesus was with me then and always and he would comfort me. I have felt his hand patting my shoulder in times of stress, fear, etc., knowing that Jesus and my father and husband were watching me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my boyfriend who was with me at the time. He believed. I told my children. My daughters just acted as if I was crazy. My son accepted. My mother just listened with no comment. I told them all immediately. It has taken three years for one of my daughters to accept and believe (she has done her own research).  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My father had been burned in an accident in 1975; he was not given much chance to survive. While he was in hospital, and after he came home to recover, he told me of closing his eyes and seeing a tunnel with a bright light at the end. He was heading towards it and he wanted to go but he heard me call to him and he came back. I just wish I had known then what I have since learned to have helped him understand.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I played the scene over and over in my mind. I wanted to go back and was angry for not having died.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I call upon the experience to help me through extremely difficult situations. It is fading a little in its intensity.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had to struggle for every aspect of my personal life, my career, it seems to be evening out now. I had a lot of help reading books by PMH Atwater.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_l_nde.html