{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary D Shared NDE and ADC 2563","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary D Shared NDE and ADC 2563  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary D Shared NDE and ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  						832  Mary D Shared NDE and ADC  2563  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  These may not qualify as NDE's as I was not the person dying.

In the first experience, I was at a summer camp experience with my friend, Bunny, and her family. We decided to go swimming in the lake early evening. She didn't like to feel the mud on her feet so she wore tennis shoes. She dived off the diving board; I was still on shore and could see she was having a very hard time surfacing. At that moment, it was instantaneous thought, I could see a long dark tunnel and Bunny was going down it. I knew she was going to die.

I remember saying 'No,' and going into the water to save her. It felt like a tremendous fight between light and dark. It felt like I was fighting light and dark. I was finally able to get her to shallow water so she could stand up. She thanked me profusely and made me promise never to tell anyone of what happened - I didn't. This is the first time I have ever told anyone about that experience.

The second experience, again, may not qualify as a NDE. My grandmother was in a nursing home, she was ninety-eight with Alzheimer's. She was from the 'old country', Ukraine, and spoke very little English even though she was in America as a young girl. I had gone to visit her the previous weekend. Nothing out of the ordinary, but the next weekend, late Friday evening/Saturday morning (12:20 am) I have a vision of her in stars like a rocket ship ascending into the skies. Spirits who tell me I must stay where I am - it is a very beautiful sight - dark blue with silver and gold shooting stars, they surround grandma and she is smiling. I wake gasping for breath and, with the vision in my head. I know grandma has died. I call my parents and they tell me grandma died last night, I tell them I know. They tell me she died at 12:20 am. I tell them what I experienced.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 two experiences 1962 and 1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident Illness        Other 1.  My friend was drowning 2.  my grandmother died  My friend was drowning.  My grandmother died.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like processing many thoughts all at the same time and all very distinct, the energy level around me was rushing by, but my actions seemed to be very slow within this energy field. All my thinking was very fast and very precise. It was like I was moving and thinking at one speed yet that was not the real speed as everything else around me was rushing by. I can still remember every detail of each experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in the midst of the experience. How I got there and back is not as intense as being in the middle of it and experiencing that incredible light and darkness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Both experiences felt out of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I had a profound sense of enclosure by darkness so dark it enveloped me - and the light was also a very bright distinct entity.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In my experience with my grandmother I met spirits. They were celebrating and laughing as my grandmother traveled up through the silver and gold stars - they also told me I had to go back, it couldn't go any farther.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder and amazement.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It took place in what felt like another dimension that no words can describe.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always been very psychic.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The dying process is very beautiful. There is some existence after death, in what form I'm not sure - maybe those spirits were friends and family welcoming her.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One, no - the first experience with my friend.  One yes, with my mother and father. My mother was very psychic and just nodded her head like yes, I understand. My father didn't really pay attention. It was his mother who had just died.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Matter of factly.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know there are many dimensions of existence - these experiences were there. So close, as if just walking over a threshold.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_d_nde.html