{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_ann_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Mary Ann P NDE 7397","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary Ann P NDE 7397  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary Ann P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3765 Mary Ann P NDE 7397  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A few hours after eating a marijuana brownie, my legs became numb and I couldn't talk. My fiance knew something was wrong and kept screaming at me to wake up. 

From above, I could see her.  I was on the ceiling looking down at her trying to tell her to help me. I could see her calling an ambulance and trying to put clothes on me. I was unable to help her, since my legs felt like lead. I floated to a room somewhere, and could see a small door at the far end of the room. A part of me felt like I was supposed to go through the door, but another part of me said, 'No.' Then I saw a figure. I don't know if he was God or what, but I kept telling him to let me go back and that I wanted another chance. 

I then looked to the left and I could see down, again, into the bedroom. I was in with my body, by then the paramedics where there. One slapped me to wake me up, and picked up my arm, but it just dropped back down. I remember how mean they seemed to me. 

I looked back to the figure and kept asking him to let me go back.  I was so scared. I then looked to the left again.  At that point, I'm in the ambulance.  I could hear a lady and man laughing at me, saying look at her. Then I remember waking up in the hospital.  The sounds were so loud, like I came out of that room and the noises were so intense. When I asked my fiancΘ later, 'Was there a lady and a man that came to the apartment?' She said, 'Yes, how did you know?  You were unconscious.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Allergic reaction.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   After eating a brownie laced with marijuana, a few hours later I had a near death experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the people around me, as well as see the figure in that room with the door.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was able to see and hear everything. Everything was clearer, I could describe what people were doing and saying. I could see so much.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to go faster; it was like seeing a 2 hour movie in 30 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like having 20/20 vision instead of needing glasses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was keener, I could hear what people were saying, and hear the worry in my fiancΘ's voice; the smugness in the paramedics' voices.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was in a room, it could have been a tunnel, but there was a small door at the far end of the room.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don't remember seeing any light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was in a room with a small door at the far end of it.  There was nothing else in the room, no furniture or anything.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was so scared, because I just knew I was going to die, or was dead. I wanted another chance. I kept begging that figure to give me one more chance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was like I was looking down on everything, except when I was in that room.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I kept begging the figure to let me return, he finally did.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in all the stories in the bible. As for God, there is a higher power, does he have a name: I don't know.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I thought you died and went to Heaven, that it was peaceful and calm. My experience was a nightmare, I was scared.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Just hoping there is a Heaven, hoping that behind that door, there is a paradise.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There was a figure in the room, it was a man for sure, but I couldn't see his face that clearly. I couldn't tell what color he was.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   The figure might have been Jesus, but I'm not sure, he wasn't clear.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The figure was of great importance, who he was for sure, I'm not sure. But I know he makes the decision on who stays and who goes back.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw the figure, and the door. So you do go somewhere.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I am really afraid to die now. I just hope all the loved ones that have died, did not experience what I did.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   My experience was very clear, I wish it wasn't. It scares me sometimes. I try not to think about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I noticed sometimes if I really think hard about things, it can come true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I kept wondering why my fiance was wasting so much time trying to get me dressed, then just calling 911. I kept yelling at her 'you're wasting time', but she said I was unconscious and I didn't say that, but I did.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only my fiance and my sister. They believed me because I was very detailed in what I said.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I thought your heart had to stop for someone to have a near death experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real, because my fiance was able to verify everything I said about the people that came into the apartment and the things I said she did while I was unconscious.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was very scary. I wish I could have seen loved ones, but I didn't.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_ann_p_nde.html