{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mary_g_sobe.html","mytitle":"Mary G SOBE 21870  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tOBE at time of childbirth.  Witnessed baby\u2019s soul entering its body.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mary G SOBE 21870  		  		  		  		  		OBE at time of childbirth.  Witnessed baby’s soul entering its body.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mary G SOBE  					  					  						Home  						Classification SOBE  						1699 Mary G SOBE 21870  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was the day before my thirty-seventh birthday.  Noelle was coming into the world.  I had a bad experience with my son's birth eight years before, so this time, I decided to go completely natural.  It was a little frightening, because the doctor had not arrived.  The nurse and my husband had to deliver her.  I was lying on my left side and the pushing urge took over.  Suddenly I was behind myself, looking at the event taking place.  No more fear--no pain.  Just peace.  I didn't even seem surprised that I was there.  Then I saw an amazing pure white light coming from inside my lower back.  The light was so bright that it would have hurt my eyes, but it didn't.  It was really indescribable but felt like love on the highest level I have ever experienced.  I remember wondering what it was.  Immediately I could see it was shaped like a baby--my baby!  The entire experience lasted only a short time, and I was back in my body just as she was born.  I believe I was very privileged to witness my daughter's soul entering her body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12-18-1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth     During natural childbirth  Only so far as giving birth in late thirties could be considered risky.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was just consciousness--my being.  I did not notice any form apart from seeing my body in front of me and separate from me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely conscious and alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I described the event as short.  That is only because I knew the time span had to have been short, due to the circumstances (I only pushed two or three times before she was born.) However, during the time I was outside my body, there was no sense of time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my daughter's soul.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I have not thought about that before, but it seems that I did not use my senses.  When I said I ‘saw’ things, I was actually more aware of the experience on a different level.  It was more like awareness or knowing, but it is hard to explain.  It was like seeing clearly, but I don't think it was with my eyes.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I don't remember any emotions--just peace.  Although, looking back, it did seem blissful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I realized my child was very special, which she has proven to be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Unity Church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had previously believed the soul enters the body at conception.  I think now that the soul enters at birth.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can describe it; but at the time, it was an experience that transcended language.  So, I didn't talk about it right away.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Confirmation of our spirituality was the best part.  There was no down side.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mother-in-law, a very practical, but religious woman, shared an experience she had kept secret for over twenty years.  My mother, however, didn't believe it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Meditation can sometimes lead me to a very peaceful, blissful state.  That is merely a small part of the experience I described.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have not experienced an increase in psychic ability since the incident. I have been somewhat psychic most of my life.  Now, however, as I meditate and study, it seems I have a greater capacity to be happy, grateful, and connected to the Source.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mary_g_sobe.html