{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marty_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Marty M NDE 5169","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marty M NDE 5169  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marty M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2694 Marty M NDE 5169  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in total blackness and wondered to myself 'What?' I didn't wonder in English or any other language, but it was the essence of the word. I had no cognizance of anything previous. I felt like I had just been born, not as an infant, but as an inquisitive youth. Then, on my left, I saw plants and blue sky forming. Somehow, I sensed welcome and love from them. As they materialized, I felt I was way out in the country in a meadow. When they began to form in front of me, I sensed something wonderful was beyond them. I couldn't wait to get beyond them to explore, when suddenly I sensed I couldn't move. I looked down and saw a vast area. Within the area, I saw many little individual areas. One flashed, and at that point, I knew it was this life, and I had to come back. I said in English, 'Oh, no!' because I didn't want to leave that wonderful place. 

In an instant, I opened my eyes and looked at the emergency medical technician, who was so busily trying to save my life. My only thought was 'Why did he have to bring me away from that wonderful place?'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was as if time had no meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     When I looked down, the vast area I saw was time or existence and the little areas I saw I assume were other lifetimes.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder, joy, excitement, and a distinct and unique feeling of being 'whole'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     When I tried to go beyond the trees, I could not move.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was raised Lutheran, and eventually became atheistic about ten years before the NDE. I now experience very spiritual moments. However, I reject all religions, as so many are bogged down with what I see as primitive dogma, meaningless rituals and distorted interpretations.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was raised Lutheran, and eventually became atheistic about ten years before the NDE. I now experience very spiritual moments. However, I reject all religions, as so many are bogged down with what I see as primitive dogma, meaningless rituals and distorted interpretations.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew spirits had many lives previously, as well as yet to come. Also, the importance of unconditional love and to always follow the Golden Rule.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel very fortunate to have experienced the NDE and I feel I understand the relationship of the spirit to the body. I feel spiritual (at times very spiritual) yet I've rejected religion. I also feel there is only one thing left for me to do in this life: unite with a soul mate, or possibly 'twin flame' (a seemingly fitting term that I learned about after the NDE), but which sadly has not happened - and may not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Foremost, learning we have a spirit, or consciousness, that is eternal. Next, that it's not about reward, judgment or punishment, but enlightenment - and that unconditional love is the most important thing that exists. And I seem to have gotten answers to many more things that I have contemplated - too lengthy to go into here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I began telling people about it right away. Some believe it; some don't, for any and all reasons.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was familiar with Elisabeth Kubler-Ross and had read, or heard of, NDEs before. No, it did not affect my experience because I had become an atheist about ten years prior to the NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately after, it made perfect sense to me. I understood so many things that I'd questioned in my past.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I understood so many things that I'd questioned in my past. Also, I had that incredible feeling of 'wholeness' or completeness, a dimension to my spiritual self I'd never experienced before (probably have, it's just forgotten - just as we forget our past lives and/or spiritual home).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marty_m_nde.html