{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1martina_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Martina D NDE 5105","mylang":"de"}
          	        Martina D NDE 5105  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Martina D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2649 Martina D NDE 5105  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Even if I was so young when I had the experience I still remember as if it happened yesterday and still feel how it felt during the experience.

I remember walking around a lake playing with a wooded stick. My dad was walking nearby with my baby brother who was at the time two years of age. I remember walking towards the water and my father calling out to be careful and not to go closer, of course I was four and curious. I remember playing with the stick and make it splash on the water and then I dropped it. I remember trying to reach for it but I fell in the water. The thing is I didn't try to swim or anything all. I remember is falling and going straight down. The water seemed so heavy at the time. My arms felt heavy. The more I was going down the more it was getting darker but I could still see around me gray water, it's hard to describe.

I remember seeing a few fish looking at me and watching me drowning. It was strange because at that time I was thinking it was so cool to fish, so close like that, and looking at me. I clearly remember thinking that I will never forget. Then I saw a small shadow with very long hair like me floating beside me and I was thinking it was so strange. Then everything when black and I saw this strange shadowy path with tiny small shadowy lights floating around with and I still remember feeling like I wanted to laugh. I wasn't walking or floating, it's like someone was carrying me but couldn't see who it was. Then the shadowy lights got bigger.  The more I was moving through the path, the more the light got brighter. Then I remember asking myself clearly if I was still under water but wasn't feeling pain of out of breath, all I wanted is to see why it was so bright. That's when I saw and felt a presence reaching for me, no face, no body, just shadowy lines in a form of a 'v' all in white. I'm not sure if it was reaching for me but at that moment, I felt pushed away like I have been sucked out a tube.

Then I heard my dad's voice near me saying I would be okay. I opened my eyes and first thing, I asked my father is what kind of fish they have in this lake dad? Because I saw tones of them and they were looking at me strangely. I had no idea that I have been under water for almost five minutes and when they found me, I wasn't breathing anymore. My father saved my life that day and my mother as well; she knew it wasn't the time for me to pass.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977  Fall

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  fell in the lake and drowned...no one knew where I was until my dad decided to check the lake and dove in. He found me in the bottom lifeless...  Other did drowned...was under water for 5 minutes until they find me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   No.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       No.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Did when I was seeing myself floating the feeling of being light I have that feeling often when I dream.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Faces around me but in shapes of shadow pale but smiley faces with no hair or colors.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     in my dreams

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused but not afraid and very curious.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm having a hard time to get close to someone I don't know because it normally takes me a few seconds to figure them out and I'm a very sensitive person, it's like I feel what others feel around me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   People think you are weird and they don't believe you.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     That's why I'm writing to you because this event happened when I was very young. My life as been very different from others. I can feel things that no one can feel. I dream of stuff that happens in the future about people. I do have a sixth sense and yes lots more have been going on with me but too long to explain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything I experience in life is meaningful to me, everything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my dad and my grandmother at the time. Never again, until I saw this movie a month ago about people who had similar experience. I was afraid to talk about it because I'm kind of weird different really from the general people around me and didn't want to scare people away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Car accident with my mom at the age of two my mother drove to a ravine and crashed the car they found me alive under the back seat.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I do truly believe it was all real because I do remember clearly what happened and right after the event I spoke of it to my father and grandmother.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just want to speak to someone not only about the event but of what's going on with my life because of it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martina_d_nde.html