{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marty_nde.html","mytitle":"Marty NDE 2463","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marty NDE 2463  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marty NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						753  Marty NDE  2463  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Firstly, I want to enter my experience before reading others to see what is or may be not similar as compared to others. I don't want to be biased by others' stories before entering my own. I have heard about the tunnel vision and a buzzing sound, and a bright light at the end, and the feeling and vision of unearthly beings or spiritual forces. I felt and experienced all of these.

When I was a boy of nine or ten I acquired strep throat, but my mom thought I had a flu. During the time, my mom was a nursing student and she thought that she knew better, but my fever reached 104-105 and she rushed me to the hospital in the family station wagon.

I recall being weak and lethargic laying down on a hospital gurney. The doctor was just finishing giving me a cold shot of penicillin when my body went into shock with a fever of 105. I heard a buzzing noise that grew in pitch and the room began to spin increasingly in sync with the sound. I felt my body explode out of something and into another realm of calm, peace and beauty. I felt that I was traveling in a tunnel, which I think is a common experience felt by others. At the end of this tunnel, was a very bright light and I was getting closer and closer to the end and I saw brilliant beings of some sort. There was no speaking.  But it was understood by a both of us that I would go no further. I heard the most beautiful music that I ever heard and can't describe it. This experience lasted a few seconds. I came back in a reverse manner with the buzzing sound getting lower and lower this time.  My eyes opened to see the room spinning slower and slower and back into consciousness. When I came to, I was sitting in an ice bath to bring down my fever. I remember telling my mom what I felt and she told me to be quiet and she did not believe me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      Strep  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Strep  Fever of 105 and convulsions.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More felt like ESP.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Sensed a connection with space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Buzzing sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Did not pass but saw a glimmer of another side.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Saw bright silhouette of beings with on focus with me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I now believe that it was another dimension.  The tunnel could be a worm hole?  The worm hole could be time travel?  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Can't be sure.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Don't believe in one denomination but of a greater existence of a higher order.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Don't believe in one denomination but of a greater existence of a higher order.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Maybe universal?  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It's nice knowing.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I heard the most beautiful sounding music in my life!  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think that I can see peoples' hearts? Not mind reading.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Somehow making contact with a being.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Teenager.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Just ideas from religion.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Felt like I was not afraid to die after that.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I vividly recall it more than any other memory of my boyhood thirty five years ago!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm now curious to read others' experiences. I have a feeling some things are commonly felt by people worldwide.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marty_nde.html