{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marta_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Marta Y NDE 4251","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marta Y NDE 4251  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marta Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2094 Marta Y NDE 4251  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					March 13, 1985, I was admitted to Ayala Hospital of the IMSS (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social - publicly-funded) in Guadalajara, following an accident in a taxi causing me much pain in the neck and back. I was alone, my family unaware of what was happening as I had no time to tell them. I could hardly speak and could not hold my head upright.

I was put in a waiting room, where I stayed more than two hours while nobody paid any attention to me, until a lady who was there, a total stranger, made sure I was quickly attended to when she saw that I was almost fainting from the pain. The doctors and nurses had put attending to patients on hold because they were celebrating the birthday of one of them.

When they finally got around to me, a doctor, without checking me properly, ordered a drip put in place with various analgesics. I was taken to a small room since there were no available beds, and a nurse proceeded to put the drip in me. My veins are hard to find.  After a bit, already desperate, she placed the drip in a vein inside my left elbow; but as this is an area which has to be immobile, she went off to find something to do this with, and as soon as she was gone I started feeling that the drip was provoking a tachycardia, and I realized something was wrong. I wanted to pull it out, but my muscles no longer obeyed me. In my mind, I had just one idea, 'I'm dying and I want to be lying face up, to die in comfort.' When the nurse returned and saw me, she called out for help. A stretcher-bearer came and asked me to climb on the gurney, but I could not manage it alone. Then a doctor came, and between the two of them, they lifted me up; I tried to get on the steps, but could not, then with my last remaining strength, I said to the doctor, 'Thank you, God bless you.' I've no idea why I said this to him, but immediately afterwards everything went black and I don't remember how they laid me down again, nor do I know whether I fell, or what happened.

After this, the first thing I remember is being alone, lying face-up and opening my eyes, to see a strong light on the ceiling (I don't really know if I physically opened my eyes, and saw one of the theater lights, or if it was a question of Divine Light).

Later, I saw a kind of mist, lit up in brilliant royal blue, coming out of my nose, at the space between the eyebrows. I simply said, 'That's me leaving my body,' with great serenity, and as if it was something I had already experienced before.

Very soon, I felt myself floating in the air and looked towards the gurney where I saw my body, but I was above it, a moment of indescribable emotion. I marveled at what the physical body is and how small, compared with the dimensions of the spirit. I understood that reincarnation exists. When I turned to look around me, I realized that I could see through the walls and I saw a man, who was also in the theater, also leaving his body. Then, in a small room, I saw a friend of mine from childhood whom I had not seen since.  He was working as a radiologist, taking x-ray images of a lady.  I said, 'There's Juan,' and straight off I was there in front of him and I said to him, 'How lovely to see you,' but he showed not a trace of having heard me, which made me understand that he could neither hear nor see me, that I was dead.

I came straight back to the room where my body was and I saw the doctors striking my chest repeatedly; it bothered me that they were mistreating it. I wanted to try to stop them, but it was hopeless, I shouted but they didn't hear me, I wanted to grab their hands but I couldn't, I became desperate and anxious.

But suddenly I felt a force sucking me away upwards and at first I struggled to escape it, but when I realized it was useless, I let myself be taken spinning (towards the light).

I passed through the tunnel, felt strange presences, but the light, which could be seen at the end got bigger and bigger as I went towards it, and the speed of my travel got faster and faster, until I began to feel that it was too fast, and a wind was caressing my body. My body was stretched out, like the Vitruvian Man, forming a beautiful five-pointed star with my head and four limbs. I felt immensely happy and suddenly I was brought to an abrupt halt, and stayed there as if floating in the void. In front of me was a being, male, aged, with beautiful hands, which looked like wings and moved harmoniously. I did not remember having seen him before, yet I seemed to know him from all my previous lives. I felt it was my guardian angel, who was there to guide me. I wanted to embrace him but something indefinable prevented me from approaching. Although his mouth did not move, he spoke to my interior mind telling me many things. Some, I understood, while others I did not; I felt it was a strange language. The little that at this time I remember having understood included the following:

'Like all other beings, you are living in order to accomplish a mission, and you are not doing this. You must change you way of living, you are supposed to help many other beings, and you are not doing so. You have to stop eating meat, as no one who eats meat can remain here.'

Following this, I saw my entire life in great detail, and experienced feelings through it of satisfaction, shame, repentance, following on each other without leaving me time to think.

After this I saw myself floating in the void, and little by little tiny spheres of many colors became manifest, not moving at first, then suddenly starting to vibrate while smoothly approaching me and incorporating themselves with my essence, which made me feel something I can't manage to describe, it was as if I was being tickled. I asked what this was, and a voice said, 'This is the knowledge you have accumulated in previous lives, it was kept from you, but now it will be of use to you.'

Then we were again face to face, the ancient being and I, and he told me many incomprehensible things, but he made me understand somehow that it was not a question of interpreting what he told me, I just had to register the information, and in time, I would understand. And so I was there, who knows how long, as if under a torrent of information which seemed important to me although for the moment I did not understand it.

I felt more and more happy in that place.  Then suddenly, I heard the voice of a child behind me.  The voice did not sound in any way like that of my two-year-old son, the only child I had at that time. After some moments I felt that it was a child of mine, too, and when I turned to look at him, I felt an immense joy on seeing his face, and heard him say to me, 'Mommy, mommy, I'm Hermes,' and I realized there was something special about him. He vanished into a white mist and I went immediately to look for him, without much caring that the ancient being was still passing on information to me.

Then I heard a voice say, 'Marta, Marta!' I opened my eyes and saw everything around me from inside my physical body again. One of the doctors was calling me by name and straight away, I sat up.  I noticed that nothing was hurting, and I could move my muscles with perfect ease. But they laid me down again and asked me to give them the name and telephone number of a relative, to advise them of my situation. I could only remember my friend Juan, and the social worker knew him, so they went to look for him and he gave the news to my family.

When I discussed it with the doctor, he told me that (the experience) was the product of the painkillers, which distort the mental processes.

But my husband, who is a doctor, did believe me, and later on I kept slowly and gently deciphering all the messages.

Three-and-a-half years later, my second child was born, and we called him Hermes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  13 de Marzo de 1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentAllergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   From anaphylactic shock my heart stopped beating for fifteen minutes, and vital signs ceased, leading the doctors to pronounce me dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that time did not correspond with what I was used to. It seemed that a great deal of time passed there, more or less a week, but when I came round in my body, I realized that just a few minutes had gone by. Also, the dimensions of length, height and width to which I was accustomed in the physical body, seemed to have no validity there. I felt that I myself was bigger than any twelve-story building. At the same time I felt so small next to what I was seeing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I left my body I could see through walls and ceilings. I could see Juan, a childhood friend I had not seen again until then and that I did not know was working in that hospital.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt I could hear sounds with my whole body, not just my ears. Also, when I was travelling at great speed through the tunnel, I heard a sound like an airplane engine buzzing around me and slowly fading behind me, as if I was getting further away from it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I decided to let myself be carried along by the attraction which I felt behind me, I turned round, and then I saw an intense light, like a lighthouse in the midst of intense darkness, and felt myself drawn along by a smooth suction which kept accelerating and finished up being for me an exquisite journey. But at first I felt that I was in a tunnel filled with something indescribable, at times I felt it like snakes or dark beings, though I had no time to even feel fear, as the light was more central to my focus and I felt protected by it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The main Being is the one who received me and guided me in the experience. But behind him there was a special landscape, resembling fields with swathes of flowers of great beauty. There many people could be seen who were looking at me in astonishment, but I did not recognize any of them.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a very intense light, intoxicatingly beautiful, which made me feel warmth and safety, love, peace and happiness. I went quickly towards it and blessedness and joy invaded me, it is beyond words. I would have stayed there eternally in front of the beautiful light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Me vi flotando enmedio de esferas de colores y senti como cada esfera vibraba y se dirigia hacia mi, y se metian en mi energia, disolviendose de inmediato haciendome sentir una especie de cosquilla que me llenaba de alegria. Pregunte que era eso y una voz me respondio que eran los conocimientos que yo misma habia adquirido en el pasado y que ahora se me estaba permitiendo reintegrarlos para que los utilizara en cuanto recobrara la consciencia, y que serian la base y fundamento de mi nueva vida.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, I saw that a bright blue light was leaving through my nostrils and I felt or thought that it was myself leaving my body, but in a way which was more natural than I could have hoped for; I felt that I was dying and I was not afraid. Then I was already there kind of floating by the ceiling and I was surprised to see my body lying below me and looking so small, my own dimensions having become so immense. I could not understand why I was imprisoned and compacted into such a tiny body. I admired it and marveled at the beauty and perfection of that container, and I gave thanks to my inner being that it had allowed me to live by means of that container. A great bliss enveloped me, and I felt that a feeling of Peace and profound Love was embracing me. Greater than any I had felt while I was alive.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my life in rapid images, from the moment of my birth. I, who thought that my mother had never loved me, saw clearly, and felt, her love when she saw me for the first time. I saw how she kissed me and enfolded me in her arms.  I felt different feelings and with every image that went through my mind, or before my eyes, I cannot define it. And just as I could feel deeply happy at an image of something good I had done for someone, so also this feeling would change immediately and I would feel myself deeply ashamed of something bad that I had done. I realized that no one was judging me other than myself, with a conscience full of wisdom and divine justice, which made me pass judgment on myself. I realized that I had done more bad than good and I was hugely regretful of my actions. From the depths of my soul, I asked to be given the chance to mend the damage I had done to the people who loved me. I learned that the spirit is God, Who is eternal, and that we reincarnate to learn different things, which would be impossible in a single lifetime.  I learned that we form a single being with everything created. I learned that my earthly eyes are those through which God can recognize Himself, and be conscious of Himself. And I learned that what we think, feel and do remains imprinted in the universe and that we come to this life to improve, to learn in humility about all that surrounds us, and to teach what we have learned to others, and especially I learned that life is focused on two aspects: Love and Service.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I could see a young being who was born to me three and a half years later.  Also I felt that in the future I would have to help many people who were in danger.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was not allowed to cross over, there was a force which prevented me from continuing onwards and I felt this meant that it was not yet my time to make the crossing.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Era Catolica por costumbre familiar, mas no por creencia personal'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I can no longer belong to any religious cult.  I only do what my conscience tells me is right, I try to live in harmony with everything and everyone.  I love everything created.  I live without material cares.  I am going against time's current to serve others, as when it comes to love and service, there is never enough time.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Ahora, mis creencias de lo que es Dios, el espiritu y la vida eterna no puede contenerse en ninguna religion, y aun asi, soy extremadamente feliz, sabiendo que soy Dios, que soy eterna, y que soy uno con todo lo que me rodea y que todo lo que ocurre es por y con amor. Que todos somos Dios, viviendo una experiencia humana...'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I can no longer belong to any religious cult.  I only do what my conscience tells me is right, I try to live in harmony with everything and everyone.  I love everything created.  I live without material cares.  I am going against time's current to serve others, as when it comes to love and service, there is never enough time.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood many things which my grandmother had taught me since childhood, and there was no room for doubt, since not only did I understand them, I lived them.  Now I know that everything in the Universe obeys the Divine and Perfect Laws.  That Love is the fountain of all that exists.  That I come from God, am God, and go towards God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer feel bitterness, hate or any negative feeling towards anyone. I can only see God in other people and I know that what happens is always just and for the best.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   What the being who greeted me communicated in a strange language, or the concepts he used were not ones that I understood at the time. I struggled greatly to try to understand what he was saying, but after a 'while', I let myself relax and focused just on receiving the information even without understanding it, as I felt that later on I would have the opportunity to interpret the content.  It needed nearly two months before this happened. Since that time, all the ideas started to flow like an inexhaustible fountain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Now I feel when someone is in danger, or when I handle and object belonging to a missing person, I can feel what is happening to them, or if they are alive or dead. I have been able to find abducted persons. But it is very exhausting for me and I have put my life at risk several times, which is why I no longer do this. But I can make contact with the Higher Being of each person, in order to answer some questions they have and which may relate to their realizing an advance in spiritual consciousness.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was very meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two months later I began to share my experience with others and those who heard me have reported feeling peace and tranquility, losing the fear of death. I have more than two-thousand pupils whom I have taught how to get in contact with their Higher Being, and through this we have given many consultations to people concerning their past lives, their mission in this life and with this information they have been able to conquer their fears and material burdens.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it as a call to alertness, so that I might take a new direction and do what I have come to do.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It changed my life for the better and now I know that I have accomplished what I came to do and I am now ready for the time, when the universe is disposed, to leave happy and satisfied.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have twice already had other similar experiences, but they have not been as relevant as this first one.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That I thank you, and feel privileged to live in order to tell my story.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think it is perfect.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marta_y_nde.html