{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2623","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n20_sep_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N20 September 1885","mylang":"de"}
110. XX-VOL. II. 8D'rDl1D, 181&.
JOURNAL
01' TRB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CO.'lB.'lB.
PAG.
.. Gomal4!a 011 the Bzper\menta of H. Cbarlel"Rlchet
'!IIoaahC-1'II&dlDa "Uh aDd without Contact •• ••
PlulDeum. or die DeIId.. •• •. •• . • •.
CuM ~Yed b, the Lltararr Committee..
PolO•
" as
•• M
•• rT
.• 38
M. GOMALEz ON THE EXPERIMENTS OF M.
CHARLES RICHET.
We have received from M. Theodore Brubns, a Russian member of
the Society, an account of an article by M. Gomalez, published in a
w~ll-known Russian weekly medical paper Yratch ("The Physician") for
May 9/21 and 16/28, 1885, which offers some criticisms on M. Richet's
experiments as detailed in our Proceeding" vol. II., p. 247. M.
Gomalez contends that much more than M. Charles Richet would
admit may be learnt and acted upon unconsciously by the person who is
trying to guess the thought, or perform the action desired. The
lOurce of knowledge is imagined to be the slight involuntary sUers.-
tions in the respiratory motions of the operator; these are very slight.
certainly, and cannot be in general perceived cOnIci0u8ly even when
attention is directed to them. M. Gomalez himself has not been able
to perceive them when himself playing the r6la of the percipient, but
conceives that they may be perceived by other percipients who are in a
state of rapport with the agent; and show in this way an auditory
hypenestbesia such as is often attested. That the respiratory move-
ments are slightly affected by many emotions is undoubted. It will be
remembered that M. Richet brought forward some experiments in
which A sat at one table, pointing to one letter after another, of an
alphabet, with B watching him, .and three other persons, C, D, and E,
at a second table, quite out of sight of the alphabet; C, D, and E
engaged in conversation, but occasionally their table tilted, and B
marked the letter to which A's pen was then pointing. These letters
were found to produce approximations which could not be attributed
to accident to words M. Richet was thinking of. M. Gomales, if
we understand him correctly, assumes that M. Richet was aware of
what letter A was pointing to, and could not avoid revealing it to C.
D. and E by the changes in his respiratory movements, which, though
D
Digitized by Google
34 Journal oj Societgjor P81/clliCIJI Be8eQrck. [Sept., 188&.
unconsciously produced and unconsciously perceived, yet induced
C, D, and E to tilt the table. M. Gomalez sUgge'1ta that this
hypothesis might be tested by plugging the ears of those who sit at
the tilting table, whereby the "respiratory impulses" might be
cut ott
[The case, as M. Richet presented it, did not seem to us to be open
to this criticism, for in his original essay he gave no indication that he
was aware of what letter A was pointing to; if he was, his desoription
is seriously incomplete; if he was not, there could have been no timely
emotion to cause him to alter his respiratory movements.]
THOUGHT-READING WITH AND WITHOUT CONTACT.
I was glad to see in the July number of the JO'Urnal that the
President had directed the special attention of the Society to the
consideration of the phenomena connected with Thought-transference.
Acting upon this suggestion, I have ventured to write the few remarks
which follow, on the subject of Thought-transference, with and witkout
contact.
I Ulink there is a tendency, somewhat to confuse actual Thought-
transference with contact, and muscle-reading; and too often to assign
scientific explanations as elaborate as they are improbable to facts of
the simplest kind. Whenever experiments are performed with any
kind of centact, we are always sure to find some person coming forward
with explanations far harder to accept than the actual phenomena
themselves. I feel sure many will bear me out in saying that there is
a large class of good and trustworthy percipients, from whom excellent
results have been obtained, who are never able to succeed without
contact. It has been mid that by continually experimenting, such
persons would in time become able to thought-read witltOut contacl,
but I have never yet heard of such a case, and am inclined to believe
that there is always a large proportion of percipients who can only
successfully experiment with contact. This brings me directly to the
point I wish to discuss in this paper.•
Are all experiments in Thought-transference made with contact
evidentially valueless 1 To this, I think, we must reply that, when
made under certain stringent conditions, such experiments are of the
highest value. It will, of course, be always exceedingly important to
distinguish carefully between a case of muscle-reading, and a genuine
case of Thought-transference, but, if the experiments be performed under
ihe conditions I shall presently describe, I think there wi1l be
little difficuliy in doing so. It seems to me that, in their zeal to
Digitized by Google
Sept.. 1885.] Journal qf 80cietg 1m- P,gc/ucal ReBeorch. 35
place their results beyond the possibility of suspicion, many have gone
into the other extreme and have refused credence to really genuine and
truly valuable experiments. Again, the tests which are applied to
experiments witl, contact are often unneoessarily severe, and, indeed,
often lndicrously so. People who have seen a clever man like Mr.
Irving Bishop perform most wonderful feats when he is allowed contact
immediately jump to the conclusion that every other person who performs
experimentsin which there is any sort· of contact must be a 'mtulcle-reader,
not a fJumgkt-nader, simply because Mr. Bishop's experiments have
been shown to be merely muscle-reading. They forget, first of all, that
the conditions, under which contact is permitted, and the entire method
of arriving at the result, are quite different j and also that it is not fair
to apply the same tests to the experiments of a public performer, who
has probably given years to practising and acquiring every species of
trickery, and to those of private individuals, whose ordinary avocations
would render it impossible for them to have acquired the knowlEdge
and skill necessary for performing the most difficult muscle.reading
feats.
Besidp.5 thp..5e experiments are often made with children, whose
tender age is sufficient guarantee of the impossibility of their succeed-
ing by means of intricate systems of signalling, and the other ways in
which such phenomena are explained. Imagine a child of 8 or 9,
for instance, telling the number of n. bank-note by muscle-reading!
Which is most extraordinary 1 that the number should have been
actually transferred to his mind from that of the agent, or that, at so
early an age, the child should have acquired the necessary skill to accom-
plish the feat by means of muscle-reading 1 Besides, it is remarkable that
the number of successes in the reading of numbers by genuine thought-
reading exceeds those attained by muscle-reading. Mr. Bishop often
failed at the bank-note test_ Again, I should think it would be of very
little use to most people who have other things to occupy their minds,
to spend their time in learning n. long system of deception, in order to
make people believe that they possess a genuine power of thought-
reading j especially now, when it is pretty generally admitted that
thoughts can be transferred from mind to mind. We may well ask,
cui bMW 1 and are not likely to get a reasonable reply.
And now for the condition necessary to obtain accurate results
from experiments made witl, contact. The percipient should first be
taken out of the room and blindfolded. During his absence, a number
should be written down, or a card selected from the pack, or an object
thought of, as the case may be j only one person, the agent, should know
what is chosen. The percipient should then be brought in and seated
at a tab!e, and if he desires contact it should be permitted, care being
taken that in no case shall the percipient be allowed to grasp the agent's
G D21
Digitized by oog e
36 Journal of 80cietg fo,. PB1/chical Rt.aearcA. (Sept., 1885.
hand, and then, while holding it, write down the number gradually, for
this would be muscle-reading. The percipient, after a short time, should
be asked if he knows what has been selected; contact should be with-
drawn and then he should at once tell the object chosen. The carrying
out of these conditions will, I think, be sufficient to ensure results of
real value, but of course any person can make such alterations as they
may wish if they are inclined to be extra careful. I have experimented
with friends witl, contact somewhat in the way I have described, and
have obtained very successful results, even words of 3 letters being
read by the percipients, and I have found from 30 to 50 seconds
generally sufficient. Of course there were failures, but sometimes of a
remarkable kind, as 564 instead of 465. In conclusion, I think that I
have shown the value of experiments even witl, contact, though I cannot
but admit that those witlwut contdct are more satisfactory. I hope that
we may have further accounts from members who have found, like
myself, that a large number of percipients can only be successful with.
eontact.
OCTAVIUS BEATl'Y.
Exeter College, Oxford.
We agree with Mr. Beatty that there is some reason to suppose that
contact may /l-88ist genuine thoughtrtransference, and to prove this
would itself distinctly advance our knowledge of the subject. Weagree
with him, too, that it is not always, and for all purposes, necessary, to
impose conditions intended to exclude either codes or conscious muscle-
reading. But he scarcely seems to us to attach enough importance to
the difficulty of guarding against muscle-reading of which both. agent
and percipient are unconscious. And this is what we think usually
occurs in the willing game; the impulse which the percipient receives,
he knoW's not how, to perform some action, having really come to him
through slight unconscious motions of the agent quite unconsciously
perceived.
For example, we witnessed on one occasion the remarkable success in
the willing game of two ladies, sisters, whose bonajideIJ was beyond
suspicion, nnd who were themselves convinced that the process was
entirely mental. The lady who acted as agent tried to influence
another person, but failed. It then occurred to this gentleman instead
of waiting for an impulse, to try to follow any lead that might be
given him through the a~nt's hands. He succeeded at once, slowly it
is true, but he was without practice. The agent had no idea that she
had given any indications, but as they were given on this occasion it
seems probable that they were always given, and that her sister was un-
consiously influenced by them. It seems not unlikely that children.
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1885.] Journal of Society/or P81/cAicallleaearcll. 31
being less self-conscious and less accustomed to analyse their impulses
whil~ more accustomed to act on them than their elders, might be good
muscle-readers of this unconscious sort.
The indications in the case described consisted in slight and almost
indefinable changes in the way the hands rested on the percipient's
shoulders, according as the agent was satisfied or dissatisfied with what
the percipient was doing; but indications of another kind may be un-
consciously given. A lady we know was trying as percipient to repro-
duce diJl,grams in the manner which has several times been described in
the Procwling,; but thinking it might be easier at first with contact,
the agent put his hand on her head. She presently perceived that he
was moving his band slightly but without letting it slip on her head, in
such a way as to indiCl\te the figure, and she reproduced it with great
success. A less self-conscious, and very likely therefore better, perci-
pient might perhaps have become aware what the figure was without
knowing how.
We hope that Mr. Beatty and all other memoors of the Society who
have opportunities of trying systematic and careful experiments will do
80, and send a full account of them, describing the conditions observed,
and noting 11011 the results--failures as well as successes. All our own
experience tends to show that the persons able to obtain clearly success-
ful results in genuine thought-transference are few, and more experi-
ments and records of them are very much wanted, hoth to convince
the world that thought-transference is a reality and further to elucidate
the whole subject.-[En.]
PHANTASMS O~' THE DEAD.
We have received the following remarks on the paper which
appeared under the above title in the Proceeding" Part VIII., from Mr.
C. A. Goodhart, a Member of the Society.
" On p. 99 Mrs. Sidgwick says ' there is some reason to think that a.
telepathic impression may remain latent for a time, &c.' This had
already occurred to me as a possible explanation of the cases cited in the
immediately preceding context. P. Junior's desire to see Mr. Lewis seems
sufficient to have produced a. mental transfer which might only have
atrected the field of consciousness, through sub-conscious associations
auggested by the sight of the closed house. The transfer would be like
the impression on a sensitive photographic plate, which is only recognis-
able under suitable conditions resulting from after manipulation. Mr.
D.'s experience I should be inclined to explain in the S9-me way. If an
unconscious transfer was produced by young Mackenzie at the time of
death, it might possibly become recognisable through transferred
Digitized by Google
38 Journal qf Societ1/ .for P'1/chical ReMarcA. [SPpt., 1885.
suggestion from Mrs. D., when she opened and read the letter; which
must have been when her husband had the dream.
" As regards the Haunted House question, what has occurred to me
is this :-May it not be possible that, at the point of death, the energy
which results in some cases in the mental tra.nsfer of an apparition, may
in others secure a transfer which produces an increase in the 'permanent
possibilities of sensation" in the material surroundings1 The effect would
be th.at,to a sensitive observer, suggestions would be given,unintelligible
to others, related to the past intelligence which had at first effected their
production. It is, of course, pure hypothesis, but it seems tentatively to
fit the facts, and even such a case as Mr. Bro wning's studs-which
seems natura.lly explicable by direct thought-tra.nsference - might
possibly be found to come under it. Haunted studs are not apriori,
more impossible thanhaunted houses. So far as I can see, in the evidence
there is but little to favour the view that the dead, qu4 dead, can or do
communicate with the living. At the same timeit seems very much as
though we had traces of persistent energy which may have been released
during life, and can still be recognised under favourable conditions.
" You will pa.rdon me for writing this, but, in a subject which is
involved in so much obscurity, the wildest guesses may be worth con-
sidering as suggesting lines for experiment and observation."
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Continued. )
L.-815.-Ad pn
[The following account was received from a gentleman of good position,
whom I must term Mr. A. Z. He has given me the full names of all pe1'llOnB
concerned, but is unwilling that they should be published on account of the
painful character of the event recorded.-F. W. H. M.]
Ma'J, 1885.
In 1876, I was living in a small agricultural pariah in the East of England,
one of my neighbours at the time being a young man, S. B., of. who had
recently come into the occup'&tion of a large farm in the place. Pending the
alteration of his house he lodged and boarded with his groom at the other
end of the village furthest removed from my own residence, which was half
a mile distant and separated by many houses, gardens, a plantation and farm
buildings. He was fond of field sports and spent much of his spare time
during the season in hunting. He was not a personal friend of mine, only
an acquaintance, and I felt no interest in him except as a tenant on the
estate. I have asked him occasionally to my house as a matter of civility,
but to the beat of my recollection was never inside his lodgings.
One afternoon in March, 1876, when leaving, along with my wife, our
• These are not the proper initials of hill name.
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1885.) JDUNlal of&cietyfM' P'1lMical Ruearch. 39
railway station to ..alk home, I .... acooeted by S.B.; he accompanied us ..
far .. my front g-..te, ..here he kept us in conve1"ll&tion for lOme time, but
on no special subject. I may no.. state that the distance from this gate, going
along the carriage drive, to tho dining and breakf..t-room windows is about
60yards, both the windo..... of these rooma face the north-eaat and are parallel
with the carriage drive. On S.B. taking leave of us my ..ife remarked,
"Young B. evidently wished tobeasked in, but Ithought you would not care to
be troubledwith him." Subsequently_bout half·an-hour later-Iagain met
him, and, .. I .... then on my way to look at lOme work at a distant part of
the estate, asked him to walk with me,which he did. His conve1"ll&tion .... of
the ordinary character; if anything, he seemed somewhat depreued at the bad
times and the low prices of farming produce. I remember he ..ked me to
give him lOme wire rope to make a fence on his farm, which I consented to •
do. Returning from our walk, and on entering the village, I pulled up at
the CfOIII-roada to say good evening, the road to his lodgings taking him at
right angles to mine. I ....surpriaed to hear him say, .. Come and smoke a
cigar with me to-night 1" To which I replied, "I cannot very well, I am
engaged this eveniruJ."" Do come," he said. "No," I Nplied "Iwill look in
another~evening." And with this we parted. We had separated about 40 yarde
when he turned around and exclaimed, "Then if you will not come, good-
bye." This .... the laat time I saw him alive.
I spent the evening in my dining-room in writing, and for lOme hOUri I
may say that probably no thought of young B. paued through my mind;
the night 11''' bright and clear, full or nearly full moon, still and without
wind. Since I had come in slight snow had fallen, just sufficient to make
the ground show white.
At about 5 minutes to 10 o'clock I got up and left the room, taking up
a lamp from the hall table and replacing it on a small table standing in a re-
cess of the window in the breakf..t-room. The curtains were not drawn
across the window. I had just taken down from the nearest bookcase a
volume of "Macgillivray's British Birds" for reference, and "·M in the act
of reading the pasaage, the book held close to the lamp, and my shoulder
touching the window shutter, and in a position in which almost the slightest
outside lOund would be heard, when I distinctly heard.the front gate opened
and shut again with a clap, and footsteps advancing at a run up the drive;
when opposite the window the steps changed from sharp and distinct on
gravel to dull and 1888 clear on the grass slip below the window, and at the
same time I 11''' conscious that someone or something stood close to me
outside, only the thin shutter and a sheet of gl&ll dividing us; I CQuld hear
the quick panting laboured breathing of the measenger, or whatever it w..,
u if trying to recover breath before speaking. Had he been attracted by
the light through the shutter 1 Suddenly, like a gunshot, inside, outside,
and all around, there broke out the most appalling ahriek-a prolonged wail
of horror, which seemed to freeze the blood. It 11'''not a single shriek, but
more prolonged, commencing in a high key and then 1888 and 1888, wailing
away towards the north, and becoming weaker and weaker &I it receded in
lObbing pulsations of intense agony. Of my fright and horror I can say
nothing-increased tenfold when I walked into the dining-room and found
m1 wife sitting quietly at her work close to the window, in the same line and
Digitized by Google
40 Journal of Society for P,yckical Re,earck. rSep&..1885.
diatant only 10 or 12 feet from the corresponding window in the b~
room. She had hetJrd nothing. I could see that at once; and from the poai-
tion in which she was Bitting I knew ahe could not have failed to hear any
noise outside and any footstep on the gravel. Perceiving I W88 alarmed
about something, ahe asked, "What is the matter ~" "Only aomeone
outside," I said. "Then why do you not go out and see 7 You always do
when you hear any unusual noile." I said, "there is something ao queer
and dreadful about the noise. I dare not face it. It must have been the
Banshee shrieking."
Young S. B., on leaving me, went home to his lodgings. He spent
moat of the evening on the sofa, reading one of Whyte Melville's novels.
Saw his groom at 9 o'clock and gave him orders for the following day.
The groom and his wife, who were the only people in the house besides S. B.t
then went to bed.
At the inquest the groom stated that when about falling asleop, he W88sud-
denly aroused by a shriek, and on running into his master's room found him
expiring on the floor. It appeared that young B. had undreaaed upstairs.
and then came down to his sitting-room in trousers and nightshirt, had
poured out half-a-glasa of water, into which he emptied a small bottle of
pruaaic acid (procured that morning under the plea of poisoning a dog, which
he did not pOlBelB). He walked upataira, and on entering his room drank
off'the glasa, and with a scream fell dead on the floor. All this happened,
88 near as I can ascertain, at the exact time when I had been so much
alarmed at my own house. It is utterly impolBible that any sound short of
a cannon shot could have reached me from B.'s lodgings, through closed win-
dows and doors, and the many intervening obstacles of hoUBel and gardena,
farmsteads and plantations, &c.
Having to leave home by the early train, I was out very lOOn on the
following morning, and on going to examine the ground beneath the window
found no foouteps on graBI or drive, still covered with the alight sprinkling of
Inow which had fallen on the previous evening.
The whole thing had been a dream of the moment-an imagination, call
it what you will; I simply state these facts as they occurred, without
attempting any explanation, which, indeed, I am totally unable to give.
The entire incident is a mystery, and will ever remain a mystery to me. I
did not hear the particulars of the tragedy till the following afternoon,
having left home by an early train. The motive of suicide was said to be &
love affair.
In a subsequent letter dated June 12th, 1885, Mr. A. Z. says;-
I have no objection to the publication of the narrative on the terms you
mention (i.e., avoiding all chance of recognition}and omitting my name. The
suicide took place in this pariah on Thursday night, March 9th, 1876,atorabout
10 p.m. The inquest was held on Saturday, 11th, by --, tlle then coroner.
H. has been dead some years, or I might perhaps have been able to obtain a
copy of his notes then taken. You will probably find some notice of the
inquest in the - - of March 17th. As far as I can recollect, nothing
except the bare fact appeared in print, 88 the family made every eff'ort to
lupprelB details. I did not myself hear any particulars of the event till my
Digitized by Google
8ept.,1B86.]' Journal of Society/or P81/cAical Research. 41
return home on Friday afternoon, 17 hoUl'B afterwarda. The alight IDOW fell
about 8 o'clock-not lAter. After this the night was bright and fine, and
very lltill. There was alao a rather IIharp fl'Ollt. I have evidence of all this
to llatiafy any lawyer.
I went early the next morning under the window to look for footsteps
just before leaving home for the day. Perhapa it ill not quite correct to call
it IInow; it was llmall frozen sleet and hail, and the grass blades just peeped
through, but there was quite enough to have shown any stepa had there been
any.
I was not myself at the inquest, so in that case only speak from he&rll&Y.
In my narrative I llay the groom was awoke by "a shriek." I have asked
the man [name given], and c1'08ll-questioned him closely on this point; and
it is more correct to lI&y by "a series of noises ending in a crash" or "heavy
fall." This is most probably correct, as the son of the tenant [name given]
living in the next house was &roused by the same .art of I01md coming
through the wall of the house into the adjoining bedroom in which he was
sleeping.
I do not, however, wish it to be understood that any material noises heard
in that house or the next had any connection with the peculiar noises and
8Cl'8an1 which frightened me so much, as'anyone knowing the locality must
admit at once the imposaibility of such sounds travelling under any conditiona
through intervening obatacles. I only lI&y that the scene enacted in the one
was coincident with my alarm and the phenomena attending it in the other.
I find by reference to the book of [name given], chemist, of --, that
the poison was purchased by young S. B., on March 8th. I enclose a note
from Mrs. A. Z., according to your request.
The enclosed note, signed by Mrs. A. Z., also dated June 12th, 1885, is
88 follows :-
I am able to testify that on the night of March 9th, 1876, about
10 o'clock, my husband, who had gone into the adjoining room to conault a
book, was greatly alarmed by sounds which he heard, and described as the
gate clapping, footsteps on the drive and grass, and heavy breathing close to
the window-then a fearfulacreaming.
I did not hear anything.
He did not go to look round the house, as he would have done at any
other time, and when I afterwardll asked him why he did not go out, he
replied, "Because I felt I could not."
On going to bed he took his gun upstairs; and when I asked him why,
said, "Because there must be someone about."
He left home early in the morning, and did not hear of the suicide of
Mr. B. B. until the afternoon of that day.
An article which we have seen in a local newspaper, narrating the suicide
and inquest, confirms the above account of them.
L-I064.-A.d pn
Of the occurrence about to be uarrated, we have received three in,
dependent accounts, all at second band, of which one dift'era very con-
Digitized by Google
42 Journal qf 80cisty for P8!Jcllical Re8earcA. [Sept., 1885
aiderably from the others. They a.gree, indeed, in little except the
fact that an apparition of fishermen was seen by Colonel Campbell.
The first has the advantage of corroboration, but even apart from this
the reader will, we think, at once judge it to be the more trustworthy.
The se(.ond account is very like the first, but adds an incident
which, from the fact that we have never met with it in first hand
narratives, we should judge to be improbable, namely, that the appari-
tion was seen again at the same spot on returning to it. If this really
occurred, it would suggest that either the real men were seen or some
real object was mistaken for them. Mrs. Ricardo and Mr. Lcring are
both under the impression that the apparitions were seen bifOf"e the
death, but in the absence of evidence as to when the boat capsized,
this seems an unnecessary assumption. On the whole, we may
proba.bly take it as certain that Colonel Campbell ha.d good reason
to believe that he saw apparitions of the two men on the night on
which they were drowned, but beyond this we cannot now go.
From Mrs. Ricardo.
8, Oheaham Street, S.W.
April 6th, 188U.
Mrs. Campbell died three months ago. I can only recolleot the story
you refer to, rather imperfectly, though I have often heard my father,
the late Oolonel Campbell, of Skipnesa, tell it. The facta were these:-
On a fine summer's evening, between 8 and 9 o'clock (still quite light
in the Highlands), about 40 years ago or more, my father was walking
to the old ruined castle of Skipnesa, which was a short distance from the
more modem house. He had fitted up a turning lathe and workshop in
one of the old rooms, and was going to fetch some tool which he bad
forgotten in the day. As he approached tho gate of the courtyard he
saw two of the fishermen (brothers), Walter and John Oook, leaning
against the wall rather stitlly. Being in a hurry he merely nodded, said
something about ita being a fine evening, and went in. He was sur-
prised that they did not answer him, which was very unlike the usual
custom, but being in a hurry did not think much of it, and when he returned
they were gone. That night a Budden gale sprang up in the middle of the
night. Next morning, when my father went out to Bee what damage had
been done, he met some fishermen carrying up a dead body from the beach.
He inquired, "Who is it 1" They said, "Walter Oook, and they are just
bringing his brother John's body, too. Their boat capsized when they
were out with the herring fleet last night, and they were both drowned. "
My father said, "It can't be, t.hey never went to the fishing, for I saw
them and spoke to them between 8 and 9 last night." " Impossible,
laird I for they both sailed with the rest of the fleet between 3 and " in
the afternoon, and never returned." My father never believed in second-
sight or wraiths, but said this completely puzzled him. It must have been
second-sight, as the men were not yet dead when he saw them, though
i~ was abllolutely imposaiblo that they could havo boon on land at the
Digitized by Google
8epL, 1885.] JOllrnal of Societ,1l fo/' PS,1Ichical Reseal·cl,. 43
time. This, aa far aa I can remember, is tho story, but I cannot be quit.e
exact aa to date and hours.
ANNETTE Rmano.
In answer to our questions, Mrs. Ricardo writes:-
1. Colonel Campbell never had any other experiences of the kind, and
always laughed at any superstitions or fancies of the kind.
2. His sight waa remarkably keen and long; a splendid shot, &c.
3. He waa always quite certain that the men were the Cooks, and recog-
nised and spoke to them by name.
4. It was well known that the Cooks went with the rest between 3
and 4 o'clock; every boat is seen and recognised aa it leaves the bay, and
they could not possibly return without its being also known.
5. Tho place was not a usual one for the fishennen to lounge, being the
walls of our old castle, in the grounds, and the men's attitude waa 80 stiff
that Colonel Campbell imagined they had been drinking.
I have just been talking to an elder relation of the family, who had heard
my father tell the story, and he corroborates these facts, only not quite sure
whether the fleet went at 3 or 4, and thinks the apparition waa seen about
9 in the evening.
My brother-in-law (Captain Macneal, of Ugadale, Losset Park, Campbcl-
town, Argyllshire) encloses his statement. There are many others who have
heard the story from Colonel Campbell. I do not know if the accident waa
Men to happen, or if only the boat and dead bodies were found. I have
always believed that the accident occurred between 12 and 1, or 1 and 2 in
the morning.
From Captain Macneal.
April 18th, 1885.
I have heard Colonel Campbell frequently relate the story regarding the
Channel fishermen, just as his daughter has stated it to you.
H. MACNEAL.
We have received from Mrs. Loring the following independent a.ccount:-
Montagu Street, Portman Square,
August 15th, 1885.
DEAR SJR,-I am sorry to find your inquiry about a story of second-
sight has remained 80 long unanswered.
You say you "havo received from Mrs. David Ricardo and from Captain
:&Iacneal an account of a second-sight story, which they had heard from the
late Colonel Campbell. Can T. remember having heard him tell the story
in question 1 which is briefly that he saw the wraiths of two fishermen at
the time they were drowned at sea."
I perfectly remember asking Colonel Campbell if he could tell me that
he had hi1llself e\'er seen a second-sight. when he told me the following
story. He was one evening walking from his dwelling-house at Skipness to
the ruillB of the old castle which were at a little distance. He saw, leaning
against the old wall, two of his mell who were fishermen. He greeted them,
but received no reply. On his return shortly from the ruins, he found them
gitized by (.oogI
44 Jourllal qf Society for Pagchical Reaearcll. [~, 18S5.
Itill in the same position and again bid them good evening without receiving
response. ThiBleemed Itrange to him, for he W8I from childhood on frendly
terms with all his people. AI h went on hiB way he &lked himself why
those two filhennen had not gone out &I usual with the fiBhing lIeet at IUDset.
Next moming he waa awakened by the infonnation that there had been a
ltonn in the night; the boat of those very men W&l uplet, and they were
both drowned.
He answered it could not be thOle two men for they had not gone out wit.h
the lIeet that night; he had leen them leaning against the wall of the old
cutle BOme time after the lIeet had sailed. He alluded also to their old
mother having leen lights in her cottage, but Iwpped himlelf, saying ho
could only answer for what he had himself seen. I understood that certainly
the storm had not occurred and the men were not yet drowned at the time
Colonel Campbell saw them, or, aa he afterwardl believed, tAtir '''''(lith.,
leaning against the wall. He looked upon it aa true Highland lOCond.light.
a warning of that which W&l about to happen.-Yours faithfully,
FRANCES LoUISA LoRING.
The following version of this incident iB from a lady who writes in 1884
that Colonel Campbell "related to me the ltory about 35 years ago, jtllJt
&I I repeat it."
Captain Campbell, of Skipn8l8, iB well known as a Ipirited writer on
Indian field sports. He and hiB wife were staying with me in the Highland.
of Argyllahire, when he related the following circumstance. Skipneu
Caatle, hiB family cutle, ltandl on the coaat of Kintyre, that wild part of
Argyllshire facing the sea. It iB a regular feudalltronghold, small, squaro-
turreted place, on a pile of rocks, lapped by the sea.
Behind, rise barren hilla in long, monutonous lines, broken below into
grass fields divided by walla. or dykes, &I they are called in Scotland. Thero
are no trees, notlting but the clouds and hilla and the Bea. Under the old
cutle, along the shore, nestle a few grey hovela. Thele, with the grey
cutle above, fonn the village of Skipn8l8, a place which, even in lummer,
chilla one with its luggeltive look of wintry blasts and nearing SO& ltonna.
One Ipecial autumn moming, Captain Canlpbell started to Ihoot groule
on ilie moors far o.way beyond the hilla. BiB path lay along the
shore, by a little pier and a low wall, raised as II. barrier to the waves.
Under thiB wall lay moored ilie fishing boats of hil tenants, who, on the
borders of Loch Fyne, look to the famous herrings of those waters for their
IUpport. As he plUlllod t.he low wall, he saw four men, well known to him,
preparing their llets for a start. The day was boisteroul, the wind moaned
along tho shore, and tho white·crested wavel rolled in angrily, Itriking
against the wall. Captain Campbell halted for a few moments to speak to
the men and wish them a good haul, All day ho waa out on the moors
inland; the wind had risen, and stonny gusts of rain Iwept. over the water
and the land aa he ret.urned. Again he took tlle coaat road, alt.hough it. waa
furtlter round; he felt, he said, a strange nec8l8it.y to do 80, which
he could not explain to himlelf a.t the time The sea W&l now "ory
rough, and luhing furiously against ilie low wall. The sun W&l setting
on II. bank of lurid clouds opposite. Loaning against the wall, as if resting, the
Digitized by Google
Sept.. 1885.] Journal of Societ!l/or P8!1cltical Re8earcn. 45
sieldy sunshine lighting up their fonns and faces (which he fully recognised),
he aaw the llame four men with whom he had spoken in the morning. Being
late, he did not ltop, bu~ merely bade them good-night in pauing, and
acarcely noticedat the time they neither raised their caps nor replied to him.
Aa he entered the encloaed courl of the castle his wife rim to meet him,
exclaiming, "Oh, Campbell, how thankful I am you are returned. The
moat dreadful accident has happened, the boat with so-and-so on board"
(naming the four men he had seen) "has capsized in 3 sudden squall near
the ahore, lower down, and they are all drowned, and their poor wives
are almost mad with grief." "Impoaaible, my dr.&r," replied Captain
Campbell, "I have this instant seen those very men by the low wall at
the jetty.·' "Seen them," she cried, "it is bu~ an hour ago their bodies
began to drift on the beach and ODe is still miaaing, but tlle nlOlning tide
is expected to bring it in, as the boat capsized in tlle bay, and all were
distinctly seen by the watchers." Then did Captain Campbell understand
that the forma he had seen were the wraiths of the drowned men standing
to bid good-bye to the laird, and he went down to the ,-mage to comforl
the widows.
L.-2325.-Ad pn and Ae pn
From Lieut.-Colonel Fane Sawell, care of Meaars. B. S. King and Co.,
45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Wolfeleo: Hawick, N.B
A1tgt&&t 4U~, 1885.
My mother and Anne Hervey were schoolfellows together at a Madame
Audibert's, in Kensington, and they were bosom friends, and, as was nJt
unusual in those days with younggirls,they exchanged rings with the promise
that whichever of the two died first she was to send back to the othel·
herring.
During the following holidays, for which my mother went to her home,
North Berwick, Anne Hervey remaining at Madame Audibert'l in Kensing-
ton, the following incident occurred :
My mother luddenly awoke in the night to find Anne Hervey ltanding
by her bedside holding out the ring ahe had given her. The apparition
luted a few seconds and then faded away. My mother was much frightened,
and in the morning told her mother what had happened to her in the night,
adding that she was quite convinced Anne Hervey was dead, although she
had left her perfectly well a fortnight before at Madame Audiberl's.
The event proved my mother to be right, for in course of post (not so
rapid as in these days) a letter renched her from Madame Audibert telling
her of Anne Hervey's death from scarlet fever, and enclosing the ring which
she llaid Anne Hervey had begged, on her deathbed, might be sent to my
mother.
The above is exactly as I have received it from my mother's lips. The
riDg referred to was in my own poaaeaaion for many years.
F.lNB SBWBLL.
Digitized by Google
46 JOrlrnal '!f &Cietylor P8!1cAica1 Re8earch. [Sept., 188!i.
Auguat 4th, 1885.
My mother, when at Bangalore, as nearly as I can remember about the
year 1845. was one night awakened by the feeling of eomething unusual
happening, and saw as she thought a very favourite sister of my father's, my
Aunt Fanny (Mrs.•John Hamilton Gray) standing in her nightdreu at the
foot of the bed, with her hair falling loosely round her. There was a peculiar
light upon her though no light of any kind in the roum. Another peculiarity
about my aunt that my mother noticed was, that a large lock of my aunt's
hair had been cut straight off close to the temple. The apparition appeared
to gaze steadily at my mother for eomo little time, and then gradually
disappeared.
My mother, to wholll such appearances were not altogether unknown, felt
so cunvinced something serious had happened to my Aunt Fanny, that,
fearing a shock to my father, she tuok lI1ea~ures to intercept the letters to
my father which she was satisfied must bring him sad news of eome eort
relating to my aunt. The event proved her right, for in due course of post
from home came the letter bearing intelligence of my aunt's unexpected
death at sea (Mrs. Gray was journeying from the Cape of Good Hope to
England when she died), on the nigbt above mentioned, and in the letter was
enclosed a large lock of my aunt Fanny's hair which had been cut off to send
to my father.
I was a child of 5 or G years of age when the above took place, and
I remember the circumstance distinctly, though not the particulars, whicb
are, however, exactly as I have often heard my mother relate them to
different people.
FANE SBWELL.
In sending the above two narratives, Colonel Sewell writes :-
I h'lve been delayed by an endeavour, if pouible, to get exact dates. In
this, I am eorry to say, I have not been succeuful, and I have thought it
best not to give any dates at all.
I have often heard my mother relate both the experiences given in the
enclosed, as nearly as my menlllry will serve me, in the exact words I have
used.
In a later letter Colunel Sewell adds :-
In writing out the twu accounts I sent you, I purposely excluded from
the second anything of my own personal recollections of the occurrence
which took place at Bangalore, that yuu- might have the atory exactly as
related to me by my mother.
Let me reply to your questions 1\8 given.
(1) Did my mother always speak of the incidents 1\8 tvakin!1 experiences,
not mere dreams 1
My mother never spoke of either but as "tookinl experiences." She
was VCI'Y distinct upon that point. She was quite sure of ha\.jng been,
in both cases, wide awake when she saw what she described.
(2) Was I old enough to recollect whether I heard of the second experi-
ence bejlJ'l'e the news of death arrived 1
I have a distinct recollection (for the sceneB made a great impression
upon me) of the news of my Aunt Fallny's death being taken and broken to
Digitized by Google
Sept., 18811.] Journal of Societyfor P8!1chical Re8earcn. 47
my father by my mother; his great grief; and of my mother's anxiety befure
and about the coming of the letters, and of her depression (she was naturally
of a bright, cheerful disposition) before the letters came, which 1 could not at
the time understand, but which 1 have since felt was due to her anticipation
of coming sorrow. I was seldom away from either my father's or mother's
aide in those days, and must have been about 5 years old, and could well
recollect thingB of a striking character which took place then. My earliest
recollection is of the death of myeldt!llt and, then, only sister, which took
place when I was a child of bei;ween 2 and 3 years of age. Of this I
can of course only dimly remembor the circumstances, and merely ml"ntion
it here to show that I was very impre8llionable as a child, and began to
remember much earlier than the date of my Aunt Fanny's death. I have
no doubt in my own mind, therefore, of the phenomenon having occurred to
my m<.ther as described by her.
(3) (a) Am I aware as to whether my mother was in the habit of having
similar visitations or visions which did not correspond with anything 1 or (b),
of her being subject to hallucinations 1
(a) I am not aware of any such. I do know, however, of one occur-
rence which took place in February or March, 1857, whilst I was staying,
en rouu to India, with my father and mother at Piaa. I was then a young
man of nineteen.
I remember my mother came down to breakfast one morning greatly
agitated, and told us (my father and me) that she had been awakened during
the night by something unusual occurring, and saw distinctly a curious
flame-like light at the end of her bed, which took no definite shape but faded
away and left the room again dark. She said she was quite sure that some-
thing had happened to a near relative who was then in London. My father
tried to re&B8ure my mother, but she was not to be diuuadod from her
presentiment of evil (I should mention that my father and mtther occupied
separate rooms in those days.) A few days afterwards we received letters
from England informing us that the relative in question had had a sudden
and dangerous illn088-in fact, a dangerous miscarriage-on the night in
question.
(b) I never heard Qf any other C8.8CS of vision, or otherwise, occurring
to my mother, nor am I aware of my mother having been subject in any
way to hallucinations of the senses.
The occurrences I havo mentioned were wide apart as regards time. The
first when my mother was a girl of about sixteen or seventeen; next, as a
woman of about thirty-three; and last when she waa forty-seven years of age.
FANE SEWELL.
L.-2326.-Ad po
From Mr. John Hickma.n Heather, Postmaster of Retford.
Post Office, Retford,
18U. Februaty, 1885.
In my early boyhood I· have frequently heard tIle following story
from both my parents. I may preface the .tory by saying that, at the
Digitized by Google
48 Journal of Society .f0l' Psychical Re8earcA. [Sept., 1885.
time, my father wu a miller, occupying a windmill in Weathorpe Field,
in the pariah of Southwell, bia houl8 being at Weathorpe, about 1 mile
distant from th!! mill. My grandfather occupied a farm under the
late Sir Richard Sutton, at Goverton, in the pariah of Bleuby,
about 3 milea distant. My father, who had been working his mill
until put midnigbt, locked up his mill and went home ; on his way the
apparition of his mother cl'08lJed bis path, and waa 80 clearly seen that he
marked the dreIS, one which had been commonly worn, and on hia arrival at
home he at once reported the circumstance to [his wife] my mother, saying
that .. he had never leen his mother more plainly in his life." Early next
morning a man rode in with the sad neW8 that my grandmother had been
found dead in her bed.
A second caae occurred under my own notice although the apparition W&I
not 8een by me. It is about 30 years ago, my age is now M. My father
who then lived at Goverton, Bleaaby, was building a houl8 and a yard for
pigs. The building and the yard were on a elope. My father WR8 8tanding
at the lower end with his anns resting upon the wall, with the entrance to
the house into the yard directly opposite; the outer entrance waa open, the
door not having been hung. I was in the farmyard at 80me little distance,
but having a clear full view of my father and the building, when I was
8tartled by my father exclaiming, "Jack, juat aee what your Uncle Ned ia
doing in the pigsty." I at once went, although I knew it to be impoaaible
that my Uncle Ned could be there, he being I8rioualy ill at the time.
Having 8earched the place my father told me that ho had di8tinctly aeen my
uncle CI'08IJ the doorway, and would scarcely believe that he was not to be
found iuaide. In about a couple of houra a meaaenger brought the tidings
that my uncle had died.
I beg to add that in the caae of my grandmother there was no
previou8 illneaa, she hM'ing gone to bed in apparently perfect health.
I am, sir, your obedient 8ervant,
JOHN HIC'KllAN HuTHBR.
L.-2327.
From Mr. J. T. :Uilward Pierce, Frettons, Danbury, Chelmaford.
Of Bow Ranche, Blyville Post Office, Knox County, Nebraska,U.S.A.
Januaf'Y 5th, 1885.
I live in Nebraska, U.S., where I have a cattle ranche, &C. I am
engaged to be ID8rried to a young lady living in Yankton, Dakota, 25 miles
north.
About the end of October, 1884, while trying to catch a borae, I was
kicked in the face, and only escaped being brained by an inch or two ; as it
WIIS I had two teeth split and a severe rap on the chest. There were several
men standing nl.'ar. I did not faint nor was I insensible for a moment, as I
had to get out of the way of the next kick. There was a moment'8 paUle
before anyone spoke. I was standing leaning against the stable wall, when
I laW on my left, apparently quite close, the young lady I have mentioned.
Digitized by Google
8epL, l885.] Journal Qf Society for P8ychical Reuarck. 49
--------
She looked pale. I did not' notice what she wore; but I distinctly noticed
her eyea, which appeared troubled and anxious. There was not merely &
face, but the whole form, looking perfectly material and natural. At that
moment my bailiff asked me if I was hurt. I turned my head to answer him,
and when I looked again she had gone. I was not much hurt by the horse;
my mind was perfectly clear, for directly afterwards I went to my office and
drew the plana and prepared specifications for a new house, a work which
requires & clear and concentrated mind.
I was 80 haunted by the appearance that next morning I started for
Yankton. The first words the young lady said when I met her were, "Why,
I expected you all yesterday afternoon. I thought I saw you looking 80
pale and your face all bleeding." (I may say the injuries had made no
visible scars.) I was very much struck by this and asked her when this was.
She said, "Immediately after lunch." It was just after my lunch that the
accident occurred. I took the particulars down at the time. I may say that
before I went into Yankton, I was afraid that something had happened to
the young lady. I shall be happy to send you any further particulars you
may desire.
JNO. T. MILWARD PIBRCE.
[I have had a long interview with Mr. Pierce, who is as good a witneaa as
can be imagined.-E. G. January 9th, 1885.]
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Pierce saya :-
" I think the vision lasted as long as a quarter of a minute." He has had
no other viaual hallucination, except that once, when lying shot through the
jaw by an Indian, he thought he saw an Indian standing over him, and
infers that it was not a real one or he would have been scalped.
Mr. Pierce writes on May 27th, 1885 :-
I sent your letter to the lady, but did not get an answer before leaving
England, and upon arriving here found her very ill, and it is only recently I
have been able to get the information you wished for. She now wishea me
to lIy that ehe recollects the afternoon in question, and remembers expect-
ing me, and being afraid something had happened, though it was not my
usual day for coming, but although at the time ahe told me that she saw me
with a face bleeding, she does not now appear to recollect this, and I have
not auggested it, not wishing to prompt her in any wa.y.
In another l~tter of July 13th, 1885, Mr. Pierce says:-
I am sorry I can do no better for you than the enclosed letter. Th~ fact
aeema to be that events of absorbing interest and illneaa a.ppear to have
driven nearly all remembrance of.the incident from Mias MacGre~or'a mind,
attaching no partiCUlar importance to it at first. I have prompted her
memory, but she only says "No doubt lam right, but that she can't now
recollect it."
The l~tter enclosed from Mias MacGregor is 81 follows :-
Yankton, D.T., July 13th, 1885.
I have read the letter you sent to Mr. Pierce. I am afraid I cannot
now recall the time you mention clearly enough to give you any distinct
recollection.
I remember feeling sure some accident had happened, but I told Mr.
Digitized by Google
50 Journal of Society lor Pl1Jchical Research. [Sept.. 188S.
Pierce at the time everything unusual I felt, and events that have lince
occurred have, I am afraid, completely efFaced all clear recollection of the
facts.
ANNIE M....cGlLBOOB.
[We hope to obtain more in~...11 • fmul.Mr. Pierce 81 to his recollec-
tion of what Mila Macgregol! ·tOld hiDUf."tlil,l tlineabout whatahe felt.]
.. I _i I.pc. . . ( .
• '. f .,
L.-2328-Ad po (BorderlalJd.), .' ~ (" .'
From Mrs. Cooto, 28; Duke ~eet, dro~!err Square, W.
'.' JtdU 29th 1885.
On Easter Wednesday, 187~ mY·~ist,r:~.I&,.<MI'I. '{., sailed with her
husband and three young children ftoll1.).iverpool in t~ steamer .. Sarma·
tian," for Boston, U.S., where they arrived in :due eoul'le and settled. In
the following November she was seized with, and died fromsuppreaaedamall-
pox, at that time raging in Boston. About the end of November, or the
beginning of December in the same year, I was disturbed one morning before
it was light,as near as may bebetween I) and 6 a.m.,by the apJiearaDce of a tall
figure, in a long nightdreaa, bending over the bed. I distiuctly recognised
this figure to be no other than my sister.in-law, Mrs. W., wbo, 8.11 I felt
distinctly touched me. My husband, who was beside me asleep at the time,
neither saw nor felt anything. This appearance was also made to an aged
aunt, residing at this time at Theydon Bower, near Epping, Eaaex. She is
now alive, aged over 80 yeal'l, and residing at Hextable, near Dartford, in
Kent. She is still ill full poaaeaaion of all her faculties. She told my husband
as recently as the 4th inat. that the appearance came to her in the form of a.
bright light from a dark comer of her bedroom in the early morning. It W8.II
80 distinct that she not only recognised her niece MI'I. W., but she actually
noticed the needlework on her long nightdreaa! This appearance W8I
also made to my husband's half-sister, at that time unmarried and resi-
ding at Stanhope Gardena. Tho last named was the first to receive the an-
nouncement of the deathof MI'I. W.,in a letter fromthe widowerdated Decem-
ber (day omitted),1872,from 156,Eighth-street,South Boston, still preserved.
The death was announced, among other papel'l (as my husband baa recently
learned) in the Bodon Herald. A comparison of dates, as far 8.11 they could
be made in two of the cases, served to ahow the appearance occurred
after the same manner, and about the same time, i.e., at the time or shortly
after the death of the deceased. Neither myself nor the aged Mrs. B--,
nor my husband's half-sister, have experienced any appearance of the kind
before or since. It is only recently, when my husband applied to hishalf-
sister, to hunt up the Boston letter that we learnt for the fil'lt time of this
third appearance.
(Signed)
The following is from Mr. Coote, 28, Duke Street,
C.H.C. for L.C.
Grosvenor Square, W.
.Augmt 7th, 1885.
That MI'I. Coote's" vision" occurred within a week of the death of Mrs.
W., in Boston, U.S., is undoubted, and without any effort to make our
memories more precise, I may add, th"t from the first I have alwaya
thought that the most marked feature in the case was (judging, of course,
Digitized by Google
8epL, l885.] Journal of SocietyI",. P'1lMical Ruearck. 51
from an opinion formed at the time when the circumatancea were fresh in
my memory) that it occurred within the 24 houl'll after death. I am afraid
after this lapse of time that nothing concluaive can be arrived at as to
.. tunes " in the other two cases, beyond the general idea that still obtains in
the minds of both the aged Ml'II. B. and Mrs. - that the visions occurred
about the same time as that of Ml'II. Coote, and after the same manner.
1rIra. Coote desires me to add that to this hour she has never exchanged
ideas upon this vision, even with the aged Mrs. B., which precludes all
~ibility of collusion in the matter.
You are at liberty to make any use of Ml'II. Coote's name or mine you may
think proper.-I remain, dear sir, yoUl'll faithfully,
C. H. COOTE.
Mias Porter has called on Mrs. Coote, and convel'lled with her on the
subject. It is not poaaible to obtain a tll'llthand account of the vision from
Mr. Coote's half·sister at present.
----------
L.-2329-Ad P.
Obtained through the kindneaa of Mr. J. B. Johnston, M.A., of 17,
Pilrig.street, Edinburgh, from Herr Heinrich von Struve (BOn of the late
Ruaaian Minister at Carlaruhe.)
25, Pilrig·atreet, Edinburgh,
July 10th, 1885.
[Tral&,lationJrom the Gel'IMn oJ Hen' ron 8tn'IHl.]
In 1838, I was on terms of friendship with a captain of the 2nd Huaaal'll,
Herr von R., his company being quartered in a little town in Sileaia, in the
neighbourhood of which I was residing on my property. Early one morning
I had ridden into the town, and visited Von R., whom I found taking coft'ee
with his wife. While we were sitting chatting together, Von R. said to hi&
wife, .. Lina, our friend Pogerell died last night." " What a thing to say.
_~bert !" his wife replied ; "Pogerell was here only the day before yeater-
day, well and happy." "Very likely," said Von R. ; "but the fact is as I
have said. Last night he atood by my bed, and said, •Farewell, R. ; I am
departing to the great army. Greet my cousin G. from me, and ask him not
to be angry that I have not mentioned him in my will, as he is well oft', and
my other relatives are poor and need support.'" Some minutea after Von R.
had told ua this, a meaaenger was announced, who entered, bringing from
the commanding officer of both of them in W--, where the company of
Captain Von Pogerell was stationed, the announcement that •• Captain
von Pogerell had a paralytic atroke last night, and died." The town of
W--, where Von Pogerell was, was 4 German milea [about 12 English
miles] distant from the place where we were; the road was bad, and there
was no ordinary means of communication. It W&8, therefore, inconceivable
that any earlier newa than that which this messenger brought could have
reached Von R. He was a sober man, completely honest and truthful, who,
except among very intimate friends, never spoke of his gift of seeing appari-
tio~ gift Nhich he took no pride in. He would mention such expel'ienoefl
caaually to his wife in the moming, or when his friends pressed him on t,ho
subject.
Digitized by Google
Journal of Society for P'!Icllical BuenTcll. [~., 1885.
Von R. related to me BOme other highly interesting caaea of the BOrt ; but
I do not add them, as I myself was not a party to them,.as I was to the ODe
which I have narrated.
H. VON STR"I1VB.
[In an English account which Herr von Struve has signed as correct, it
appeal'll that Pogerell was not an intimate friend, and that there had been
no special reason for thinking of him.]
L.-2330.-Ad P.
From Mr. W. Brooks, 5, Wallace Road, N.
May Zith, 1885.
SIR,-Referring to your letter to the TifMB, I give you an instance;-
On the 15th November. 18'15, whilst at the above addreaa, at 7.45 a.m.,
or thereabouts, I saw my late brother &8 a spirit, but when I spoke to " him,"
he gradually disappeared. I then woke up.
On arriving at Hastings the following morning I learnt from my sister
that the above was the time my brother died there. This W&8 the only time
I ever saw him in the form of a. " ghost."
W. R. BROOKS.
The following is a more detailed account of his dream, seDt by Mr.
Brooks, OD June 14ili, 1885 ;-
The" appearance" W&8; There W&8 a long room (\r gallery, and several
of my friends there, including my brother. He W&8 like" Pepper's Ghost"
as regards substance, or rather want of substance. He advanced ~ually
towards me, which made me feel a littIe nervous and looked kindly at me. I
advanced a little and said, "James, why do you not speak 1" which utterance
seemed to make him recede. HE! retired aUttle down the room and gradually
became more indistinct and disappeared. None of the friends seemed to
take any decided notice, and did not speak. I then woke.
I do not think I can aft'ord any corroboration. On the afternoon of the
ome day, I mentioned the matter to my aunt a.nd her husband. She is now
dead, and I do not think my uncle would recollect tile account, I did not
make much of it, as I was a disbeliever in ghosts.
I dared not mention the occurrence to my mother &8 she would have grieved
all day about my brother if I had.
I have never had any other similar instance. I have had relations die
but have been near them at the time of the death.
\Y. H. BROOKS.
In later letters Mr. Brooks writes from Brooksby House, 87, Petherton
Road, Highbury New Park, N. ;-
Please note my change of address which must be my excuse for so delaying
of late.
I have communicated with my uncle &8 I promised, but he does not
recollect any of tile circuIUBtances.
In reply to your further queries :-
1. The dream did not make a particularly unpleasant impression, it was
certainly unpleasant and unusual, and on waking I felt nervous, but the
occurrence faded from my memory slowly, so far as the ailArp impression was
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1885.] Journal oj Society1M' P8'!/cMcal Research. 53
concerned. All day SUllday, however, I was wondering how my brotherwaa
and when I saw my sister on the Monday I thought of the I!Itrange coincidence.
2. NOlie of the other friends had a hazy appearance. They were in
ordinary attire 88 I should l!Iee them in a room. My brother was the only
" ghostly" figure.
3. My I!ister recollects when I!Ihe informed me (of the" time" of the
death) on the Monday that I remarked "How strange! that is tho time I
aaw James at my bedside."
I had no reason to oxpect my brother's death at the timo it did take
place. except an expectation that ono's worst fears might at any time be
realised in a case where consumption had taken hold.
My brother in his vision was not attired but appeared only as a misty or
ghostly figure. Tho term .. Pepper's Ghol!lt," has always struck me as the
most applicable. There was nothing like the appearanco of any ordinarily
dreeaed being in my brothor's caae, although, aa to the other beings
apparently in the room, it was otherwise. It was, as it were, my brother's
face with a film of drapery to support it in the shape of a human figure, or
sufficiently near to the shape that drapery would give. To have l!Iuppol!led
attire was an existent would have almost brought with it the power or idea
of walking, but when-aa it were-I insisted upon the "ghost" speaking
there was a slight movement backward and a gradual disappearance by
absorption as a mist or cloud sometimes disappears when the sun comes
forth.
I have not kept any copy of my letters but I think that I mentioned thaI,
my forcing or insisting upon a reply seemed to bo tile cause of my waking and
I had to look round to gather myself together and ascertain that I was in bed
when I 80 awoke.
ThA following is from Mr. Brooks' sister, Mrs. Plaistowe.
.At'9U8t 4th, 1885.
In answer to your letter I have to state that my brother William on his
arriving at Hastings in November, 1875, and being informAd by me of the
hour of my late Brother James's death (viz., II. quarter to 8 a.m.) said that it
exactly coincided with the time that he, my brother William, saw James in a.
spirit or vision.
I may remark that the death was unexpected by the members of the
fanlily, as James was away from home with me at Hastings and although he
had been suffering from consumption for three or four years no intimation
of his becoming worse had been received by anyone in the family, so that.
my brother's statement to you is corroborated by me.
M. PLAISTOWE.
L.-2331.-Ae P
From Rev. J. Hunter, Cockburnapath, N.B.
Decembef" 3ht, 1884.
I am the pariah minister or clergyman, of Cockburnapath, near Dunbar.
Two years ago, my l!Iister-in-law, wife of Dr. Hunter, in whose house I am
at present writing, dreanlt at about 3 in the morning that my wife W8&
being confined, and that no doctor was at hand, and that the child was dead.
....
Journal qf Society for P8!1chical Re8earch. [Sept., lS8O.
She lay awake lOme time reflecting on the matter, and then fell aaleep and
dreamt the same thing again. At breakfast ahe said to her husband she
hoped there was nothing wrong at Cockburnapath, as she had had these
vivid dreams.
It 80 happened that my wife on that ~ morning at the ,"me hour WIll
prematurely confined, and that the baby lived only a minute or two. That
occurred on the 17th December, 1882-110 Sunday morning. As I was here,
I asked my sister-in-law about it afresh, a few minutes ago, and she baa
confirmed it in every particular, telling us about the doctor not being at
hand, and about the child being dead, wMch we had not heard before, as she
communicated only briefly by letter at the time, mentioning the fact of her
dream and the confinement_ This can be attested in the strongest fonn.
all my sister-in-law is extremely intelligent, and my brother the principal
medical man in this town of Linlithgow.
It may further be mentioned in explanation that when my wife had her
fir.t child in Edinburgh, a year before that, my sister-in-law, the doctor'.
wife, stayed with her for about a month, and was present at the birth.
Thus she took a warm interest in us.
The following is from Mrs. Hunter :-
St. Catherine's, Linlithgow,
July 23nl, 1885.
DEAR Sm.-My brother-in-law forwarded your letter and asked me W
Teply to it.
I I~m almost afraid to give particulars about the dream I had, as it isnow
Bome time ago, and I had not been remembering it much. I wrote to Mr.
Hunter at the time, and he has unfortunately not kept my letter, 80 I must
trust to my memory.
The date I do not recollect. The time was 2 o'clock I think. I knew
then, as I looked at my watch when I awoke, and Mr. Hunter told me it
was just the hour at which the event took plACe.
I thought I was at the Manse Cockburnapath, wherehe lives, and I saw
Mrs. Hunter evidently ill. She went to her room. I heard the doctor',
trap pass the house, and every one was rushing to get him, but he was gone.
My sister-in-law kept calling for me, but I could not reach her. By-and-
Dye a doctor arrived, and the nuree, a stranger to me, came to my room
with an infant.
She was putting white satin on the dreaa, and I remonstrated, saying
that was only for dead infants. She replied, "and isn't it right to do it
to this one 1II and I looked and saw the cMld was dead, and I knew it was a
boy. I awoke, felt anxious, fell aaleep, and again dreamt the same, except,
I think, the first part, that of seeing Mrs. Hunter. I did not dream three
times as Mr. Hunter fancied.
When I awoke I just remarked to my husband I hoped nothing had gone
wrong, and told him my dream during breakfast.
Not hearing anything for two days I had almostdismiaaed all thought of
it from my mind, but I 11'1\8 1\ little surprised to find I bad been dreaming a
fact.
I knew quite well that my sister-in-law expected her confinement, but !
had no misgivings, as ahe had been ao strong before.
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1885.] Journal qf Socittglor P'!lchicailleaenrcla.
I had engaged a nune for her, and ahe waa not the woman I saw in my
dream. I knew the saaiBtant who was with the doctor then, but I did not
see him in my dream, only I knew he waa not Dr. Black.
I believe I never fall aaleep for any time, however ahort, without dream-
ing BOmething or other, consequently I seldom let my dreams trouble me.
I haN dreamt t.he same thing more than once, but very rarely, and
__,. in the same night aa I did thia one.
The only reliable dream I know is that when 1 see my brother, who died
abroad BOme years ago, I always hear of the death of a friend.
I waa once very unwell suddenly, and wiahed very much for a friend
who just left me a few houn previously. I repeated the name of the person
twice aloud. The post, two days later, brought me a letter aaking if, at a
certain hour I had been ill and had called for them, aa my voice had been
clearly heard repeating the name three times. The time was correct, but I
had only spoken twice. I waa awake, but my friend heard during Bleep.
I neveraleep in the daytime, not even after sleepleaa nights or during illneaa,
and I cannot sleep in light.
I have troubled you with along explanation. but I am anxious to prevent
undue importance being given to my dreams, aa I don't think I ever
had one of the kind before, and certainly not aince.
A. HUNTU.
The following is Dr. Hunter's corroboration.
St. Catherine's, Linlithgow,
JtJly 30th, 1885.
DEAB Sm,-I have only now, while taking a brief holiday, found time
to give you confirmation of the curious dream my wife had on the night of
my aiater-in-law's illneaa.
When she awoke in the morning her first remark waa "I hope nothing
serious has happened to Jeaaie. I have had such a horrid dream about her,
I dreamt she had miacarried, and the child waa dead." This she repeated
more than once.
GBORGE HUNTBR, M.D.
In later letters Mr. Hunter adda.
The Manse, Cockburnapath, N.B.,
Friday J idy, 24th, 1885.
You ask if I can recall the fact of receiving a note from my sister-in-law
making mention of her dream. We usually hear from her on the Monday
evenings, and it is very possible that she might have mentioned it in such II.
Jl(Ite ; but I am sorry that I cannot definitely recall it, as the letters are
almost always addreaaed to my wife, and not to myself. I find from my diary,
howet'er, that I met Mrs. Hunter of Linlithgow on the Tuesday following, in
Edinburgh, and went out with her to Linlithgow; and I am perfectly
positive that I heard of it on that Tuesday, if not on the night before. I
have always regarded it aa a strange occurrence, and have no manner of
doubt that her dream corresponded, in a ~e measure, with the actual
event. The event took place about 1 o'clock in the morning. I understand
that my sister-in-law dreamt three times ot'er that morning that my wife
waa ill. Itis poaaible that one of the times would agree with the hour. If
not, there could not be a great difference. I have only heard my sister-in-
law give the particulars once I think, and I do not know what account !\he
Digitized by Google
56 Journal of Society/or P'1lcAical Re8ttzrch. [Sept., 1885.
may have wri~ten to you. But I noticed in that description that she dreamt
the doctor was not at hand or not to be had. Well, the doct()r was cer-
tainly not present, buthe lives quite near us, and was got in a few minutes,
and to that extent there was a discrepancy, if the meaning of that part of the
dream, is not that the doctor was not in immediate attendance. But that of
course isa very slight point, and can, on the above interpretation, be easily
reconciled.
July 30th, 1885.
I mentioned in my last, as a sort of discrepancy to one thing I had heard,
that the doctor was not far away, Mra. Hunter tella me that was not her
meaning, but that she saw Dr. Black, our medical practitioner, drive past
her window, and that he was not at home. True enough, Dr. Black was not
at home at the time, but on a short holiday in Fife and elsewhere. He had
an aaaistant in his place and it was the &BBistant, Dr. Basil, now at Melroee
Aaylum, who came after the confinement was about over.
I think I mentioned when writing at firat that the confinement was
premature and not expected for about two months. Mra. Hunter, of
Linlithgow, had arranged with my wife to come here during the confinement,
but there was no expectation of it at the time.
L.-2332.-Acl PI
The following account of a dream is from the German nurse of Mrs.
Balgarnie, of 9, Filey Road, Scarborough. She has been in her service for
22 yeara.
July 9th, 1885.
In February, 1871, I dreamed one night that I received a letter, on the
envelope of which was written in my father's handwriting, "Oh! Death,
t.Ohere iI thy .Ung'"
Next morning I went in great trouble to my mistreBB, saying I felt
perfectly sure my father must be dead, and related my dream. This fact
was immediately written down, but the paper cannot now be Iound. Three
days after the news came that my father had died that Sunday night, quite
suddenly. During the day of the night on which he died he had evidently
wished to tell me something, for he ~wice said, "Tell Marie, tell Marie ,..
He BOOn became unconacious, and died in his sleep. I had not seen him
for eight years, and though I knew he was not well, I had no idea that.
death was expected. My father lived and died in Germany, while I waa.
and am, in England.
(Signed) MARIK LAUTIBlL
From Mra. Balgarnie. July 28th, 1885.
In answer to yours, I can only say that the nurae told me her dream on
my entering the nuraery one morning, adding, "I am sure my father is
dead." And so it proved; in three day. the letter announced the fact, and
that he died with her name on his lips.
I do not think I can give you any more particulars, except that I can't
find the memorandum of the incident.
M. BALG.A.B.liD.
Digitized by Google
