{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1martin_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Martin C NDE 7739","mylang":"de"}
          	        Martin C NDE 7739  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Martin C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3985 Martin C NDE 7739  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On the day of my experience I was at work. It was around 16:00 pm. An emergency occurred to which I had to react. So I was running towards the room where the problem to solve was happening. It was there that I felt my heart spinning out of control, the more, my breathing became more and more difficult, I started to run out of air. I then said to myself that, as soon as I was ready with the emergency that made me running,  I would go to the nearest telephone to ask for help. 

I was running out of air but I continued with my work. My heart was still beating, but I still continued to run out of air due to my aortic valve not working anymore. There was no blood circulation to get oxygenated. So, having finished my work, I decided to head for a telephone to ask for help, but too late. Hardly had I done a few steps that I went down on my knees. At that moment an office colleague came into the room and saw me. He asked me if I was okay, but I was unable to answer him because I had no air left. 

I spent a short while in blackness because during the experience time doesn't seem to exist. I felt myself rising as if I was in an elevator.  At the beginning I was in blackness and then rose to be in a wonderful park. Everything was beautiful, really beautiful.  More so, where people were there. All seemed happy and well. They didn't pay any attention to me. I felt very well.  There was no pain, not warm nor cold and I felt no fear at all. I simply felt good, as I never had felt before. I took the opportunity of the moment to observe. Then I asked myself what I was doing there.  Immediately I got a multitude of answers. I remembered that I was at work before being at this place. I also remembered a book of Dr. Moody that I had been reading when being 13-14 years old, 'Life after life'. And it was at that moment that I became aware of my death.  I was having an NDE! At that moment I was thinking at my young children and I told myself that I didn't want to die. I pleaded and insisted.  

At the same moment, I came to. I was groggy, felt cold, a feeling of tingling, I tried to get up by myself, when my office colleague summoned me to remain down on the ground, and the paramedics arrived. According to my colleague, when he found me, I was blue. Following this incident they performed surgery on the open heart in order to  replace my aortic valve, per the Ross method. 

Since this experience I have no fear of death anymore. I'm also not in a hurry, I have my family. I'm also praying, what I didn't do before. I'm asking things from my guardian angel, from God and the deceased who are fulfilling my wishes, in their ways. I also didn't do that before. It is true that this is changing us. I'm happier, I appreciate things more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9 juin 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Syncope dû à une cardiopathie valvulaire.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Blackout due to valvular heart disease

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't seem to exist. Except when I wondered what I was doing there, everything seemed to happen at the same time in my head.  It was as if I suddenly understood everything.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was normal, I believe, it’s what I saw that was so very beautiful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know; there was no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A beautiful park filled with happy people, colors much nicer than usual. I didn't perceive from where the light came, it was everywhere, but soft.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I simply felt good, not hot, not cold, no pain. I never felt as good.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was more or less undecided before this experience. Now knowing that life continues after physical death, it's that there is even something bigger. Since I pray and talk to my angel, to God, who lends me this angel and the deceased that I know, my life is changing.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Actually, I didn't know what I would be finding. I had no specific belief. So I would say it was a nice surprise.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Spirituality has taken a bigger place.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Due to my experience, I now know it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       As I said, before I didn't pray, now I pray every day, for the others, for me. I talk to those beings at the other side.     As I said, before I didn't pray, now I pray every day, for the others, for me. I talk to those beings at the other side.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to remain calmer, to better listen to others, to be Zen with nature.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because of time, which doesn’t seem to exist

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A doctor, with close relatives, but all were listening politely, nothing more. I don't speak much about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes    Dr. Moody's book, but I was 13-14 years old when I read it, and it came back to me during my experience, when I asked myself the question: what I was doing in this idyllic park.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I wasn't quite sure how to cope with it, dream or reality. Sometimes you are having dreams that seem very real. When I tried to talk about it in hospital, to try to understand, I saw very well that I had to keep it to myself. So I made my own research. I read, I searched if other people had been experiencing the same thing as I did, and I found some. I believed that you had to absolutely see a tunnel, an angel, a light to consider it a real experience. After reading and analyzing, I now believe that it was really an NDE.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_c_nde.html