{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1martin_nde.html","mytitle":"Martin NDE 6962","mylang":"de"}
          	        Martin NDE 6962  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Martin NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3515 Martin NDE 6962  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I started the night with severe back pain that seemed to be spams, but I could not tell. At that time, we had home medical care.  They diagnosed muscular pains and I was to rest. Within two days, the pains were unbearable and I was rejecting all types of foods. On the third day, I was even rejecting water.  My mother took me to a doctor from social services and I was admitted to a hospital. There, they did an analysis and according to them, it was ‘renal colic’, and they released me. 

A week later, I again had difficulties with my health and they took me to another doctor that realized what I really had. I was hospitalized and I had to have surgery. After they operated on my kidney, the results were not as expected and they had to open me up again after a month and a half. After the second surgery, I became anemic from the lost blood, but according to the analysis, I was doing okay.  This, despite feeling weak. I also remember passing out and fainting. After 15 days, I am released to continue the treatment and to recover at home. One of those nights, I got up, went past my mother's room to go to the bathroom. When I was returning to my bedroom, I felt dizzy and I fainted. 

Waiting to wake up again, I felt as if I was rising up, with dark all around me.  All of a sudden, all turns gray.  It is as if the entire place was covered with fog. Wherever I looked, it was the same. I remember that I was not scared, only disconcerted.  Yet, I felt an immense peace and serenity. That's all I was feeling. I did not feel the weight of my body although I was the one there. 

Suddenly in the fog, I could see a lighter little dot in front of me and it attracted me. At that moment, I decided to advance; I hear a masculine voice over my right shoulder that tells me ‘Not yet’ and touches my shoulder. When I tried to turn, I felt as if I was falling.

All of a sudden, I woke up sitting on a chair in my mother's room, with my mother crying and hugging me. Instinctively, the first thing I did was to throw my head back trying to breathe as if it had been long time without my breathing and cold sweat started to run. When the medical service arrived, I was diagnosed with a sudden drop in my blood pressure. After this, we never called this medical service of this company again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'setiembre, 1997'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in that foggy, gray place.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was seeing without using the eyes of my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal. With total sense of the location of the voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was rather a lighter ‘point’. Something faraway that attracted me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense peace. Absolute serenity. No sensation in my body like cold, heat or pressure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I was standing as an observer or waiting for something.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Only the described images.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt as if the one with the voice returned me to Earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Me llamó la atención las palabras "todavía no"

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sensation of peace is as intense as it is indescribable.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Fue un año de mucho acontecimientos, muy relacionados con mi salud.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sensation of immense peace; and the return to Earth: why?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe I had a cardiac arrest because of how I was feeling when I returned to consciousness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a year with many events, all related to my health.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_nde.html