{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1martin_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Martin E NDE 779","mylang":"de"}
          	        Martin E NDE 779  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Martin E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						292  Martin E NDE  779  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been in the hospital for eight to ten hours before they decided to perform an exploratory procedure on me to see what was causing all the pain.  I lost track of time and only determined that weeks afterward.  The pain was all-consuming.  I do remember that I was in a hallway, outside the operating theater lying on a gurney.  I was moaning from the pain.  A corpsman walked up and said the pain should subside because they gave me a pre-anesthetic.  I remember being rolled into the operating theater, the pain lessening.  A mask was place on my face and I was told to breath deep.


The next thing I knew was that I was rising up from my body toward the ceiling.  I knew my body and other people were below me, but I kept looking up.  I stopped near the ceiling light; it was next to my face, very bright.  Next thing I knew I was outside over a river but before a slight rise in the land with a small house off to the left, and there was a lady, dark long hair (a little curl, shoulder length), about my age, who was extremely happy to see me.  I was not standing on the ground.  She had her hands on both sides of my head and kissed me a couple times (not sexual, just happy to see me).  She hugged me.  She didn't speak, but told me that she was very happy to see me again, that she knows I don't remember her, but it was ok, because she loved me and I would remember if I came with her.  More importantly, I had a decision to make - it was perfectly all right if I wanted to return to my life and it would be perfectly alright if I went with her.  It was up to me.  I do remember feeling a sense of almost overwhelming serenity, it was great.


I also noticed an old man, white hair, heavy set with a neutral look on his face.  He was waiting for me to decide.  He was to my right and down a little bit.  There was a wooden door behind him and he had a bunch of keys on his belt.  He didn't look me in the eye or communicate with me in any way.  I didn't get a feeling if he was good or bad, he was just waiting, very patient.  I also knew that if he opened the door I would not be returning.  I don't remember any fear, but I did know he would accomplish whatever my decision would be.


The ceiling light was still near my face at that, time and I knew I was still in the hospital operating theater, but I was also up above and outside at the same time with these two people.  I remember a sense of calm, a feeling that everything was all right.  I did have a decision to make though.


The lady was still reassuring me that I would be happy and everything would fall into place if I went with her, but she would also understand if I stayed.  I remember thinking that I wasn't finished yet.  That there was something I had to do yet.  What that was, I didn't know, but I did know I didn't finish what I was supposed to do.  I told them I had to go back.  I turned away and felt myself going down - my decision made.  The ceiling light was growing dimmer.  I was glad to get it out of my face.


I remember going back into my body and, as soon as I did, I sat up and a lady placed a hand on my chest, pushing me down and telling me that I had to lie down, the doctor wasn't done yet.  I said ok and laid down.  I heard the other people in the room talking but I can't remember what they said.  I felt a mask being placed over my mouth and nose.  I also knew it was a nurse and not the dark haired lady.  I wanted to tell her that I came back but I don't know if I did or not.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    April 25, 1975

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     volvulous of the small bowel.  My intestines twisted 180 degrees around a band of adheasions from a previous surgery, cutting off the blood suppy to the rest of them.  Very painful.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Received last rites, surgeon, Dr. Beasley (Captain) told me that if he had to bet on whether or not I'd survive, he wouldn't have be on me.Volvulus of the small bowel - exploratory surgery revealed the small intestines were black from being twisted - cut off blood supply that was killing me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The same.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was as alert as I am now.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time was there, but not important at the moment - I can't really describe it other than to say I knew I was up by the ceiling in the operating room and I was also outside by a river with two people I didn't know.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Other than the whole experience, no.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There were two people, female with dark hair that was overjoyed to see me (she knew me, but I didn't know her), and an older male with white hair who did not communicate with me, but I knew he was waiting, patiently, neutrally, for me to make up my mind to stay or not.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   It was the ceiling light right next to my face, it shone into my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Summertime, by a river, small house nearby, outside, but I knew the operating theater was directly below me.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Everything that exists is connected.  Earth is only a part of a living, vibrant everything else.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I did not cross, but came close.  I also know that if I did go through the door, I would not be coming back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Returning was entirely up to me.  I was reassured that if I stayed, everything would be all right.  I didn't need the reassurance, I knew it, I don't know how, but I knew it and felt it.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Don't have faith in instiutionalized religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     But I really knew them beforehand. It made me realize what was important, not to be confused with making a living, even though you still have to pay your bills.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Makes you sound like a nut, who perhaps is looking for attention or worse self-importance.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Returning to my life.  I knew I had a purpose to come back, but I also know I left a better place.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Four separate times - polite listening, not believed.  To be honest I don't know what they really thought about my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I haven't given you my last name, phone number, address, or job information.  I did give you my e-mail address.  I don't know if I want my name on this or how telling you my experience will affect my future.  I didn't plan on filling this out.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_e_nde.html