{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marsha_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Marsha R NDE 6464","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marsha R NDE 6464  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marsha R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3174 Marsha R NDE 6464  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At some point, I was looking at my body from above, as a nurse and a doctor stood by me.  Behind them was a priest who was going to give me the last rites of death.  At a corner was my husband, quietly weeping.  Then I was suddenly in a tunnel that was very dark, but I continued forward because a voice, probably male, was saying, 'Come my child'.  I was not afraid, but apprehensive.  I then stood in the light, but there were no walls floor or ceiling. The voice told me to come with him.  I remembered suddenly that I had just had a baby. I begged to be sent back because I was afraid of 'who' would raise my baby.  I remember telling the voice, or being, to come back for me when my daughter was grown and did not need me any longer.  Suddenly, I was back to observing my body.  

The next moment the red-hair nurse turned my face to my right, I vomited, and then woke up. Next, I was in a hospital room.  I asked for the red-hair nurse so I could thank her and was told that I could not possibly have seen her because I had been unconscious; and besides she had left to go on leave.  I told my husband about all I had seen and heard. He told me never to repeat it because people would say I was insane.  I have shared with maybe three people because it is very personal.  It took about 3 years to fully recover from the stroke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6-3-69

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.  Other: Stroke,  Seizures

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I observed the nurse, doctor, priest and my husband from above.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the trauma room I could only see, but not hear.  In the tunnel I could both see and hear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating above my body, and when I spoke to the being that I could not see.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time was slow, but going from area to another was fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could not hear, but I was peaceful during and after the experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing in the hospital room, but softly while in the tunnel.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Maybe Jesus.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel and the light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt Curiosity in the hospital room, peace in the tunnel, apprehensiveness when I finally arrived into the light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The light was the end of the boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I begged the being to return me to my daughter.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I incorporate a way of believing that is not all Judeo-Christian. I have always been a 'doubting Thomas' about an existence of a 'God'.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Several faiths

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have always been a "doubting Thomas" about an existance of a "God".

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am grateful to still be alive and working for the good of those who need help.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   In the light I believed the being was God.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   In the light I believed the being was God.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I was uncertain that the voice was truly God, but I sensed that it was.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am very tuned into sadness in both humans and animals.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To raise my child and that I should Make my existance count.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     I had never heard of NDE, but I " knew" I was experiencing it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     To make my life count for something.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I feel the pain and sadness of people and animals.  I am constantly being 'put' in situations where I have to rescue or give aid to strangers, homeless people and animals.  I feel that I am an old soul and have wisdom to share, and I have great compassion.  I have gone from being a 'coward' to being a warrior for the weak, the needy, and the poor.  I have developed ESP.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am more forgiving.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   My memory of the experience is without change.  I have never remembered anything else to add to the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Countless experiences of 'knowing' things, even the deaths of people beforehand, being present at the time of people dying, being present to grab children from being run over in traffic, being present in traumatic and violent events, and people telling me secrets that they have never told before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I was allowed to come back.  I had always heard that you do not negotiate with God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Decades.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could not stop thinking about it and that it was truly remarkable.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     That I asked to see the nurse who attended me and was told that I could not have seen her because I was not conscious.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had vivid dreams of people I have loved then died.  They tell me to give messages to other people.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, I feel that everything happened in the blink of an eye. I had never heard of NDE, but I 'knew' I was experiencing it.  I was uncertain that the voice was truly God, but I sensed that it was. To make my life count for something.  My memory of the experience is without change.  I have never remembered anything else to add to the experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marsha_r_nde.html