{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marsha_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Marsha B NDE 762","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marsha B NDE 762  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marsha B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						273  Marsha B NDE  762  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I have epilepsy. One day I got weak and fell against my grandfather's dresser. I split my forehead open and had to be rushed to hospital. They finally got my bleeding to stop, but then I started having one seizure after another. They tried using liquid valium and some other drugs directly into my heart. The result was that the combination of drugs stopped my heart and my lungs stopped working at the same time. It was almost eight minutes before they finally brought me back to life. They said she is dead let her go. My old family doctor said, 'No! Let's try again.' So, they did and I finally responded.


During that eight minute time period, I saw everything that took place in the intensive care unit room. I told all the doctors and nurses and I kept telling them I was all right, but no one could hear me. I told them minute by minute exactly what took place in the room. My old family doctor said, 'I have had many patients die on me, but never had one come back and tell me what took place while they were clinically dead.'


I saw one of my grandfathers when I came to the end of a dark tunnel. No one in our family had ever taken any pictures of him. But, when my other grandfather came to hospital to see me. He said, 'Marsha I brought something but don't know why. I stopped him and asked, 'Is it a picture of my other grandfather?' He said, 'Yes! How did you know?'  The only picture ever taken was at his funeral when I was very young. I told him exactly what he looked like. He said, 'Yes, Marsha that is what he was buried in. How did you know?'  After I told him what I saw he was amazed. I saw other people but that is another story.


Please believe me when I say that I am a Christian and after this experience am not afraid to die. I now have a husband and three grown sons and six grandsons and they all know the story for it has been told over and over.  Praise God!


There is something after we leave this world! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    June 2, 1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Illness    Clinical death Complete failure of heart and lung functions for almost eight minutes

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself lying on the table. I was watching me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I saw EVERYTHING that took place.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Only from the two people with whom I spoke.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A very, very long and very dark tunnel. At the end was bright light but beautiful.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was very bright, but not so bright that I could not see the two people in my life that I loved the most.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Grandmother told me it was not time yet and I woke up back in my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Knowing for sure that there is something else other than this world we live in.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    All the time. Some people believe and some don't. That is their problem. I know what I saw and felt was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I know that people need to believe in what God's word tells them. Faith is the only answer.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marsha_b_nde.html