{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marsha_nde.html","mytitle":"Marsha NDE 2638","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marsha NDE 2638  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marsha NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						863  Marsha NDE  2638  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was talking to people in a parked car while standing on a curb-less street. I could see a car coming and realized in 'slow motion' that it was going to hit the parked car, I think I said 'oh shit' when it hit. The bumper of the parked car caught me behind the knees, flipped me on my back. I bounced on the back of my head until the car stopped, about three feet from the railroad tracks. It was a hit and run, the other driver was never found.

I was seeing my life in reverse, going back to the womb and then it was like a star-burst, a sensation of being almost in space. Then I thought I got up, there was the ambulance and I was saying how I was okay and walking around.

I woke up next in the emergency room.  They were removing my clothes. I had said that I told them at the scene that I was okay. They said that I just became conscious and had been out the whole time.

My sense of time was off; I thought it was two weeks before.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  hit & dragged by car  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Head injury.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was 'crystal clear'.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the womb stage.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     A vacuum like space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Moved quicker.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Before birth.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     space  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It's all good!  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It's all good!  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My mother said I wasn't the same anymore, like somebody else was 'me'. My interest in psychic phenomena and other paranormal issues definitely increased. It definitely changed me somehow.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I knew that there was more than our physical being to life, but wasn't in a hurry to be there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Told my parents right away. It creeped them out. Mom thought something was wrong, but there wasn't really much she could do. I also had the feeling like I had forgot 'chunks' of time from my life, although I was only seventeen.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was pretty sedated for the next few weeks, major stitches in my head plus pain in my legs and back. Everything seemed fuzzy. Listened to a lot of Jimmy Hendrix.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I wondered for a while if my mom was right, that somebody else took over my body, but if that was the case, then why did I still hear my own voice in my head? Her opinions caused me a lot of stress and feelings of losing sanity.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marsha_nde.html