{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9077","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n21_oct_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N21 October 1885","mylang":"de"}
lfo. XXL-VoL. IL <>cronK, I8&.
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COlfTBlfTB.
lI___ben ..... .HIocIatft .• ••
~ of 00aaaIl •• .. ..
AwM_'IIf Oeaeral UHtlntr ••
n. tIM Adioe of DnIp .... DlaanCft .•
--.able Jbperlelioe of 11l1li '-aach"n
c.- nood.... b,QIe U_,Committee .. •• •• .. ••
Oan~ :-Vr. HIIIrh- ; 1Ir. Morell Theobald; Hr. Sinnett.
....._ _ UbrarrCafalape.. .. .. .. .. ..
NEW lIElIBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
BBR~HEIlf, PROFESSOR, Hopit&l Civil, Nancy.
FiBi, DR., Hupital de la Salpetriere, Paris.
LIKBEAULT, DR. A. A., Nancy.
}IEMBERS.
'.
PAOW
•• bT
5$
bII
58
II:!
114
80
118
BrDDE~, EDWARD Rt:SSELL, Eversley Lodge, Ealing Common, 'V.
COVENTO~, CUARLE8 H., Morwenstow, Enfield,)diddlesex.
ELDER, FREDERICK, Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
ELDER, MISS M. C., Cal1tpclen House, Kensington, London, 'V.
IRVING, DR. LEWI8 A., Government House, Ganesh Khind, Bon:ba.y.
RoGERS, GEOImE FREDERICK, Caius College, Cambridge.
ASSOCIATES.
HEARTLRY, REV. C. T., 1I.A., Cheveley Rectory, Newma.rket.
LIXDSAY, lIISS BEATRICE, Greenfield House, Onehan, Isle of Man.
NIXON, BRINSLEY, Westward Ho, North Devon.
PHEAR, REV. DR., Emmanuel College Lodge, Cambridge.
PIIILLIPPB, ALFRED MARCH, Hitcham Hall, Ipswich.
SAWYER, R. D., 7, Avenue Gourgand, Paris.
ScIIlXDLER, MISS MARTINA, New Street, Breda, Holland.
S»ITH, lIRS. RICHARD, 1;4, Cromwell Road, London, S.'V.
WILLlAlfS, MISS S, 41, Stirling Road, Edgbaston,.Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
68 Journal of Socief!/ for PS!lcMcal Rel/flare/,. [Oct., 1885.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 2nd inst., the following
Members were prp.sent: Messrs. Alexander Calder, Walter H.
Coffin, Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, Edward R. Pe&SP., Frank
Podmore, and ProfE'ssor H. Sidgwick, 'Vho took the chair.
The minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
On the proposition of Mr. Gurney, Professor Bernheim, of the
HOpital Civil, Nancy, and on the proposition of Mr. l[yers, Dr. Fere,
of the HOpital de la. Salpetriere, Paris, and Dr. Licbeault, of Nancy,
were elected Corresponding Members.
Six new Members and nine new Associates were elected, whose names
and addresses are given on the preceding page.
Dr. A. C. Page, of Nova Scotia, desired to continue ns an Associate
instead of as a Member, after the current year, which was agreed to.
The Council received with regret information of the death of three
Members of the Society Soinee its last Meeting: Lord Houghton. Mr.
Alexander L. Elder, and lIr. Wa.lter Weldon, F.R.S.
So,"eral presents to the Library ,,-ere on the table, which were di-
rected to be duly acknowledged with thanks.
Tho usual cash account, for the two montbs of August and Septem-
ber, wns presented, and the needful accounts passed for payment.
It wns concluded that a General Meeting should be held on
Thursday, the 29~h inst., notices and cards for which will be sent
round as soon as arrangements are completed.
Tho next regular Meeting of the Council wns tixed for Friday, the
6th prox., but an intermediate one will bo held for the election of new
Members.
ANNOUNCElIENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
The next General Meeting of the Society will be held on Thursday,
October 29th, ,vhen Mr. Myers will read a paper on HUllum PerllOtl-
ality in lIte ligltt tifrecent lIyprwtic Experiments.
O~ THE ACTION OF DRUGS AT A DISTANCE.
At tho last meeting at Grenoble, this autumn, of the French
Association for the Advancement of Science, a remarkable paper was
presented by )BI. Bourru and Burot, two doct.ors of the School of
Naval Medicinp at Rochefort, dealing with the action of drugs at 3
distance. 1,: IIottracted considerable attention, aml M. Burot has very
kindly suppiied us with some corrections and explanations of the
Digitized by Google
~,l885.] Journal of Society .fOl' P8ycMcai Re8eal·cll. 6ft
reports of it which appeared in La Semaine Medicale, of August 19th,
and Le Ten,p8, of August 22nd. It relates some novel experiences,
which may be found to touch several new points in the possibilities of
thought-transference lionel nervous susceptibility; and, as it might not
-otherwise fall under the notice of our readers, a. short re,un&e of the
principal points will perhaps not be out of place here.
Careful observations ha.ve been made during the last six months in
the Hospital at Rochefort on two patients. The first was a man, aged 22,
'Who had led a somewhat anoma.lous and vagrant life. When he was a
years old he had attacks that appeared to be hysterical, and were fol-
lowed by paralysis of both legs that lasted for a. year, and disappeared
suddenly after a long hysterical crisis. During his para.lysis he was in
a hospital at Bonneval, and learnt the trade of a tailor, but on his
sudden recovery there was some change in his personality j he did not
recognise his surroundings, and did not remember his tailor's art. He
passed through various hospitals, but finally enlisted in the Marines,
and was taken in at the Rochefort Hospital in March, 1885. The
other patient was a woman, aged 26, who had been among the
hystero-epileptic cases in the SalpAtriere Hospital in Paris, under M.
Charcot, when she was 18, for about a. year and a-half, a.nd had sho'vn
many subsequent hysterical symptons before she came under observa-
tion at Rochefort in the spring of 1885. The ma.n had lost sensation
on the right side of his body, and in treating this the effects of various
meWs in contact with the skin were first tlied. Zinc, copper, platinum,
and iron had some slight effects j gold a.nd mercury acted much more
violently j indeed, gold, when it was five or six inches fl'Om the skin,
produced a feeling of burning through his clothes, even when it was
completely shielded, so to speak, by being within the grup of the
hand of the operator j and mercury in the buIll of a. thermometer gave
rise to the sa.me feeling, and some convulsions and spasms. Tht-se un-
-expected results led to the trial on both patients of the action of various
-drugs at a distance. The attention of the patient was enga.ged during
the experiment as far as possible by one of the operators 011 some object
which had nothing to do with the experiment, and no attempt to
hypnotise the patient was made. Meanwhile the other operator held
.a solid drug wrapped up in paper, or a liquid in a bottle, a few inches
behind the back of the patient's head. After a minute or two, as a.
rule, the first group of phenomena followed, which were practically
the same whatever drug was being used, and which were COll-
sidered to depend more on the nervous temperament of the patient than
'On anything else. They were something like their hysterical symptoms
'When not under experiment j sometimes they became insensible,
motionless, lionel appa.rently unconscious j sometimes there were slow
movements at first, leading to convulsions or e.xcitement. To the.
Digitized by Google
60 JOllrllal 01 &Ciet!; lor P,ychical Re,t-at'cn, [0"-. 188&
vague initial symptoms succeeded gradually a second group, due
presumably to the specific action of the drugs employed, which it was
important but sometimes difficult to separate as qccurately as could be
wished from what had gone before. In this second stage the narcotics
all produced sleep, but each had its characterilitic features: opium
produced a heavy sleep from which it was difficult to roU86 them, and
which left some headache and weariness; chloral produced a lighter
sleep; morphia a sleep like that of opium, which could be made less
deep by the use of atropine; narceine a sleep of a peculiar type, accom-
panied by salivation, and ending in a sudden waking to a state of
anxiety and distress. The sleep of codeia, thebaine, and narcotin was
accompanied by more or less convulsive movement. In the same way
the effect of each of the emetics was characteristic; apomorphia pro-
du.ced profuse sickness without straining, followed by headache and
drowsiness; ipecacuanha led to less sickness but much salivation, and
a peculiar taste in the mouth; tartar emetic to nausea and great
depression. So, too, with the alcohols: wine was followed by jovial
intoxication; amylic alcohol by intoxication with great violence;
aldehyde by rapid and complete prostration, as of dead drunkenness ;
absinth by paralysis of the limbs. Orange flower water and camphor
had a quieting action, producing natural sleep. The effects of laurel
water were unexpected, and its action in consequence was often tested,
but found to be always constant in each patient. In the man it pro-
duced convulsive movements of the thorax, spasmodic breathing, saliva-
tion and hiccough. In the woman, who was a Jewess, there was first a.
religious ecstasy in which she acted a drama of adoration, prayer, and
repentance, which was followed by spasmodic breathing, as in the man,
and ended in sleep. The laurel water contained both prussic acid and
some esselltial oil: a weak solution of prussic acid,if held up behind her
head, was followed by the ecstatic phenomena; the essential oil by the
spasmodic breathing; this was considered to contriLute to a. physio-
logical analysis of the effects of laurel water.
Valerian produced some bizarre phenomena of excitement as it does
in cats; cantharides a feeling of burning in mucous surfaces which
was stopped by camphor; veratria the symptoms of a cold in the head.
of a congestion of the back of the nose, and disturbances of sight;
jaborandi and pilocarpin made the patients sweat, and salivated
them. The ·anmsthetics were followed first by excitement and after-
wards by sleep, as in their ordinary surgical use.
lt was not easy to separate quite exactly the phenomena of the
first stage of excitement from those of the specific action of the drug.
but among those which were considered as due to the latter, and
not permitting of deceit, the authors reckon the salivation, the
sweating, the sickness, the sleep, the disturbances of sight, the
Digitized by Google
Oct.,l885.] Jo,,,.nnl qf 8ociet!/ lor PageMenl Re,eareA. 61
.ymptoms of alcoholic intoxication, of cold in the head, and the
.pecific action of valerian and cantharides.
MM. Bourru and Burot were anxious to submit their experiments
to the jUdgment of other medical authorities, and requested Dr. Duplouy,
the director ofthe School of Naval Medical Officers at :kochefort, to
give them the benefit of his opinion. Dr. Duplouy was not inclined
to accept their startling reports, but consented to investigate the matter
under strict conditions. Experiments were made by him in complete
silence, and all persons who could be suspected of having influence on
the patients were excluded. The professors of the Naval School were
present and many naval medical officers. Under the direction of Dr.
Duplouyan assistant held somejaborandi in a bottle behind the patient's
head; salivation and sweating followed as in the experiments of MM.
Bourru and Burot. Another geDtleman during Dr. Duplouy's investiga-
tion made an experiment which was rendered especially important by a.
mistake. He had two similar bottles in his pocket, both wrapped in
paper; one contained cantharides, the other valerian; he chose the one
....hich he thought contained cantharides IUld held it up to the patient ;
to hi, surprisethe results which accompany valerian followed, and then he
found that he had made a mistake and WILS holding the bc.ttle contain-
ing valerian. Dr. Duplouy admitted at the time that he was con-
vinced of the accuracy of the observations of MM. Bourru and Burot,
and ....hen their paper was before the French Association, he made a.
apeech to testify publicly to this conviction on the e\'idence of his own
experiments, which had been very startling to him; he was unable, he
admitted, to explain the facts, but he considered any assumption of
fraud as quite inadmissible. The male patient was transferred to the
Asylum Lafond at La Rochelle, where the director, Dr. llabille, re-
pea.ted the experiments with tile same results, which were witnessed to
by the lIedical and No.tural Science Societies of La Rochelle.
After the experiments on their two first and most sensitive subjects
MM. Bourru and Burot made trials of many others and found some
less distinct results of tile same kind in a large proportion of them.
They declined at Grenoble to pledge themselves to any theory in
explanation of these obsenations, but briefly noticed three hypotheses.
First, the theory of suggestion. This they were inclined to think
insufficient to cover the facts; for sometimes the results corresponding
to the drug had been obtained when those making the experiment did
not know what drug was lJeillg used; sometimes when the drug was
known the results had been very different from what was expected, as
in the case of laurel water. In tile second place, tile theory of vibrations
which M. Vigouroux had put forward to expla.in tho action of the
magnet, did not seem to them to explain (strictly 6peakiD~) Ilnythi~tg,
but only, at best, to put it in other language. There remamed a third
Digitized by Google
62 Jo,w"al qf Sociefll.for P8.1IC""Cn! Rl'8MI·ch. [Oct. 1&6_
theory, of 0. radiant nervous force, which M. Barety had advocated at.
Nice, in 1881. It was I\Jl attempt at a conception in analogy
with radia.nt heat, or, more strictly, with the action of a magnet.
a.t a distance within its magnetic field. III exceptional cases
the nervous system was supposed to be influenced by substances
within 0. limited impressionable nervous field extending to &
short distance from the body. In normal conditions there was
certainly no evidence of such extension of 0. nervous field; it could not.
he directly proved, but might be useful as a provisional hypothesis.
We are glad to learn from subsequent correspondence with M.Burot;
that these experiments are still being actively carried on, a.nd a detailed
account and discussion of them is likely to be soon published. On the
possibility of suggestion by the help of an abnormally acute s('nse of
smell, such as belongs sometimes to hysterical patients, M. Burot.
remarks that when he made the first experiments he could not imagine -
that the patient could have known what physiological effects attach t()
some of the drugs, even if they knew what they were by their smell.
a.nd, further, that some~.g., morphia-had no perceptible smell. He
is inclining to the conclusion that the drugs have no effect when con-
tained in absolutely sealed tubes, though they act when in bottles with
ground-glass stoppers; and that,we should suppose, must tend to the belief
that the results depend ill some way on the presence and diffusion of
the drug, and not entirely on any thought-transference or mental
condition of the operator. 'Ve ha.ve ventured to suggest some
further experiments, designed to exclude all the possibilities of sugges-
tion, but have not yet heard of their having been carried out.
A. T. MYERS, M.D.
REMARKABLE EXPERIENCE OF MISS VAt'GHAN.
[The following ca.se has already been printed among the .lips at the
Society'. rooms as L. ~o. 43, but as it has probably not been read by many
persolls outside the Literary Conmlittee, and as it is, as Mr. Wedgwood
-ys, an interesting parallel to a case printed in our last number, we think
that ourreaders will be glad to have an opportunity of reading it here.-ED.
The remarkable experience of A. Z. related at p. 39 of No. XX. of the
Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, has tho closest resemblance to
a.n incident related to me by myoid friend, Mias Vaughan, now llIany years
dead, which I wrote down immediately after hearing it on January 2nd}
1876, and subsequently submitted for her approval.
In the autumn of 1856, aa intimate friend of Miss Vaughan's was dying
about 20 miles from London, when one Friday she received a letter from one
of her daugbters, aaying that as their mother was rather betu.r they should be
glad to come to London for a special occasion on the following Tuesday. if
:Miss Vaughan could receive them.
Mias Vaughan then I)roceeds: "On tho Saturday night I went to bed
Digitized by Google
Oct., t88/).] Jourl/al qf Societu .for Psuchical Ilf'lIearcl,. 63
------
at my usual hour of 12, but did not go to sleep for some time, when I was
suddenly startled by" three sets of three extraordinary loud knocks, like
strokes of a hammer on an empty box at my bed head (whick stood against
the party wall of the house), followed immediately by a long loud cry of a
woman's voico, which seemed to die away ill the distance. I called my
maid instantly and begged her to look out of the window and see if thus
was anyone in the street. She opened the shutters, threw up the sa.ah,
and said there was no one; that I must have been dreaming; that it was
quite late. I said no, it had not yet struck one, and sent her to look at the
clock. She returned and said it wanted 10 minutes to one. I said the noise
(doubtless the knocks) must have coine from the next house. She said it
was empty, but this I could not belie,·e, so I sent her early on Sunday mom.
ing to see. She came back, saying that the windows were all shut, and she
had knocked for some time in vain. Ou the following moming I sent her to
the person who had charge of the house, thinking that somebody must have
a1ept in it on Saturday night. She said this could not be the case, as she
had the key, but she went to look and told me that no one could posaibly
have got in.
" A very few hoursafterwards I received a letter to tell me that my friend
became suddenly worse on Saturday moming and died in the course of the
night. I knew I bad been much in her thoughts, an;! a few days beforo
her death she had said now she was a little better she hoped she might soon
be well enough to see IDe.
"Some time subsequently I had an opportunity of seeing the nurse, and
she told IDe that my frielld had died exactly at quarter before one on Sunday
morning, uttwa,,!1 a loud c"Y at the momnd (1matlt. She had just been giving
her a cup of beef tea and had replaced it on the mantel-piece, where there
was a clock, on which she observed the hour."
In :Sovember, 1876, I read the foregoing narrath·e to A coml1lon frieud of
mine and Misa Vaughan's. She was staying with a sister at Hastings when
abe received a letter from Misa Vaughan, telling of her friend's death, /!ond of
her having appeare<1 to her. She was greatly interested at this intelligence, and
hurried up to London, when she helUu from Misa Vaughan the story exactly
as I have related it down to the news of the death; but as Misa Vaughan
had not then seen the nurse and was consequently ignorant of the precise
agreeDient in the time of her friend's death, and of the fact of her outcry at
the moment of dC*~th, she was a little disappointed at the story. Two or
three months afterWArds whel1 Misa Vaughan told her what she bad heard
from the nurse, she was much more impresaed.
H. WEDOWOOD.
• Compare the following from 'V...ley's account of loh.. rappiDg. at Epeworth,
quoted in thE' S",,,"ual Ma,GZine, I. 200. .. That; night I WB8 awaked a little before
c.e by nine diatinct very loud knocks, which seemed to be ia the AE'xt; room to ours,
wish • eonof pBlIH at every tbird .troke."
Digitized by Google
JOItI'IInl qf &cietU fo" PlI!/cMcnl Retten,.rA. [Oct., 1885
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITl'EE.
(CcmtiJlllta )
L.-816.-Ad PD
The three documents which compose this CI\8e are (I), acrount of Mrs.
de Freville's death by the Rev. C. T. Forster; (2) deposition made to me
and Mr. Hodgson, by Mr. Bard, at Cambridge, July 21st, 1885; (3) depoai-
tion made to me by Mrs. Bard, at Hinxton, on July 8th, 1885.
Mr. Forster conducted me over Hind,on churchyard on July 8th, 1885,
and I elm attest the accuracy of Mr. Bard's description of the relative
position of the church, the tomb, and the exits.
F. W. H. M.
DOCUlllENT I.
Hinxton Vical"'.&ge, Saffron Walden,
Aug""t 6th, 1885.
My late parishioner, Mrs. de Freville, was a somewhat eccentric lady,
who was specially morbid on the subject of tombs, &C.
About two days after her death, which took place in London, May 8th,
in the aftel1l00n," I heard that she had been seen that very nigllt by
Alfred Bard. I sent for him, and he gave me II. very clear and circum-
stantial account of what he bad seen.
He is a mn.n of great observation, being a lelf-taught naturalist, and I am
quite satisfied that he desires to SIJ8&k the truth without any exaggeration.
I must add that I am absolutely certain that the news of Mrs. de
Frdville's death did not reach Hinxton till the next morning, May 9th.
C. T. FOR.'iTBR,
Vica.r of Hinxton, Cambs.
Do(,'UlIENr I r.
I am a gardener in employment at Sn.wston. I always go through
Hinxton churchyard on my return home from work. On Friday, May 8th,
1885, I was walking back as usual. On entering the churchyard I looked
rather carefully at the ground,in order to ace a cow and donkey which used to
lie just inside the gate. In so doing I looked straight at the square stone
vault in which the late Mr. de Frcville was at one time buried. I then saw
Mrs. de Freville leaning on the rails, dreBSed much DB I had u8ually seen her,
in a coal-scuttle bonnet, black jacket with deep crape, and black dre88.
She was l()okin~ full at me. Her face was very white, much whiter than
Ulual. I knew her well, hn.ving n.t one time been in her employ. I at
once supposed that she bad come, as she sometimes did, to the mn.usoleum in
her own park, in order to have itopened and go in. I supposed that Mr. Wiles,
tlw mason from Cambridge, was in the tomb doing something. I walkod
round the tomb looking carefully n.t it, in order to see if the gate was open.
keeping my eye on her and never Dlore than five or six yards froID her.
Her face turned and followed me. I passed between the church and the
tomb (there are about four yards between the two), and peered forward to
see whether the tomb was open, as sha hid the part of the tomb which
()pened. I slightly stumbled on a hassock of graBS, and looked n.t my feet
for a moment only. When I looked up Bhe was gone. She could not
. • She was found dead at 7.30 p.m. She had 00e1l left alone in her room, being
poorly, but not considered seriollsly or dangerously ill. '
Digitized by Google
OeL, 1885.] Jmm,al Qf &ciet,v for Pll!lc/lltal Rt'lll'nrch. 65
------------------ -------------
}lOIIIibly have got out of the churchyard, as in order to reach any of the
aim she muat have paued me. So I took for granted that ahe had qllickl1
JUDe into the tomb. I went up to the door, which I expected to find open,
but to my aurprise it WaB ahutAnd had not been opened, as there was no key in
the look. I rather hoped to have a look into the tomb myself, ao I went
back ~ And ahook the gate to make aure, but there was no aign of any
oDe'a having been there. I was then much atartled and locked at the clock,
which marked 9.20. When I got home I half thought it must have been
my faDCY, but I told my wife that I had BeeD Mrs. de Freville.
~~~~~~~~~.~~I~a~
which my companion noticed, I was ao much taken aback.
I haye never had any other hallucination whatever.
ALFRED BARD, Sawaton.
DOCUllBNT III.
When Mr. Bard came home he said"I have seen Mrs. de Freville to-night
leaning with herelbow on the palisade looking at me. I turned again to
look I\t her and ahe was gone. She had cloak and bonnet on." He got home
as usual between 9 and 10 j it was on the 8th of May, 1885.
SARAH BARD.
L.-817-Ad po
Church Farm, Gorleaton.
8tpkmb~r, 17th, 1885.
DEAR SlRy-SAeing your advertiaementin the Tinw. it occurred to me to
lend ycu the particulars of an event which took place 5 years ago.
In the June of 1880, I went to a aituation as govem8l8. On the first day
of my going there, after retiring for the night I heard a noiae whiCh WaB like
the ticking of a watch. I took no particular notice of it, but I noticed tha~
every time I was alone I heard it, more especially at night. I even went 80
far aB to IlUll.rch, thinking there must be a watch concealed somewhere in the
room. Tbis continued until I grew quite accuatomed to it. It was on the
12th of July that I was coming frum the dining-room with 110 tray of glaaaea
that I saw what appeared to me tu be a dark figure Btanding just outside the
door, with outstretched arma. It atartled me. and when I turned to look
again it was gone.
On the 23rd of September I received news that my brother was drowne<l
aD the 12th of July. I heard the ticking up to the time I had the letter.
but never once afterwards.
There is nothing very atartling in this narrative, but it is very vivid in my
memory. Hoping it will be of IKlme use to you.-I run air, yours faithfully,
F. A. BALB.
Church Farm, Loweatoft Road, Gorleston.
&pumber 2200, 1885'
DEAlt SIR,-I enclose the Ieter informing us of my brother's death, al80
ODe from the captain of the ship. for your perusal.
I made no entry in my diary of the apparition I saw on the 12th of July.
Digitized by Google
66 JOllr"al,!f Societ!1 for PS!lr./dcrtl &1I~nrc',. {Oct., 1885.
but I distinctly rememberthe time. I sat down a little while to recover my
fright, and then I looked at the time; it was 20 minutes past G. I encloae the
address of a friend who I am sure remembers it as well as I do.
You will see by enclosed where my brother was when he met with his.
death. The apparition did remind me of my brother, 1\8 I last saw him in a
long dark ulster, and it 11'1\8 about his height, but that was all I could dis-
cover, for when I looked the second time it was gone. What made me
mention the ticking WI\8 the peculiarity of its following me e"'1lllJMt-t, pro-
viding I was alu"e.-Yours faitltfully,
FWBEYCB BALE.
Extract from the letter written by the Rev. W. A. Purey-Cust on board the
ship "Melbourne."
.AUgIl8' 16th_
llY DEAlt SIR,-I ha"e to write to you to tell you some very painful and
diatreBBing news concenling your nephew, William Bale, that on July 12th.
last, whilst bravely doing his duty as anEnglish seaman,h~, fell from the fore-
top-sail yardarnl into the sel~, and was never again seen. On the afternoon of
that day, the ship WRB about 150 miles to the BOuth of 1'ristan d'Ac~
in lat. 28deg. 40" S..* and long. 12 deg. 30" W., and in a heavy confused
BOa, causing her to roll heavily. At2 p.m. the main royal stay came away,
and in cOll8Qquence at 2.30 p.m. the main top-mast fell. All hands were at.
once set to work to clear away the wreckage, and this was barely finished
at 5.30 p.m., when the wind, which had been rising rapidly, blew a gale. At
6 p.m. the hands ,vere orderell to furl the fore·top sail, and your nephew
was one of those who went aloft.. He was at. the yard ann when the ship
gave a tremendous lurch, and the movement of the yard jerked him and a
mannamed •• Chilton" otrtheyard. The cry of" Man overboard" was raised.
and everything was done that could poBBBibly have been done under the
circumstA.nces. It seems certain that your nephew never rose again after
atriking the water.
Extract from the Captain's letter.
M.elbourne, Atcgtllt 25th, 1880.
DEAR SIR,-It is with great sorrow I have the painful duty of infonning
you of the death of Mr. W. Bale ; he fell overboalu on the night of the 12th.
July at the commencement of a gale of wind, when it was beyond our power
to save him.-Yours truly,
N. HARRISON, Commander of ship "Melbourne."
Baker·Street, Gorleswn.
&ptember 28111, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-On the night of the 12th of Jnly, 1880, MiBB Bale came to.
my house to supper, and she told lIle that she was coming frolll the drawing-
room and she saw n dark figure standing just outside the door; she appeared
very nervous. She said it reminded her of her brother, and remarked to me
then that she knew something must have happened to him. I asked her
if ahe noticed the time she saw it, and she told me that the apparition had
startled her very much, and she had ant down a little time to reCt'ver the
• Thllll\titude of Tristan rl'Acullha is about 3; rleg. S.
Digitized by Google
Oct.,l885.) Journal ~f &Ciet!/fo,. PI/!JeMenl Resefll'cl,. 61
fright it gave her, and then she looked at the time; it was 6.20. She had
previoUBly told me of a ticking she heard everywhere ahe went, 80 long aa
ahe was alone, but directly anyone joined her it ceased; and ahe told m&
ahe heard it ul' to the day ahe received the newa of her brother's death, but.
not afterwards.-I am, air, youra sincerely,
(MIlS.) H. HART.
Church Farm, Loweatoft Road, Gorleston.
&ptember 24th, 1885.
DEAR SIR.-There was one incident I did not tell you, tIlinking it too
trivial, as I did not notice the date or hour, but I know it was ahortly before·
I heard the news of my brother's death. I had been in bed a short tine, and
I heard a tremendous crash like the smashing of a lot of china. I felt to!>
nervous to go and Bee what it was, but nothing was broken or disturbed in
the morning, and for three nights in aueeeaaion I heard the same. I am not
inclined to think that it was in any way corresponding with my brother'a
death. I certainly have nevor heard imaginary voicea nor seen imaginary
figures except the apparition I saw the day Illy brother was drowned.-I am,
air, yours sincerely,
FLORENCE C. BALB.
[There 88ema to be no rea80n to connect the BOund like a "'atell ticking
with llr. Bale's death, any more than the crash of china j and it seems most.
likely that it was caused by a !uerely physical affection, to which the shock of
receiving the news put an end. We have, however, thought it right t!>
mention it, since if it wa.a a hallucination it would tend to show that Mi88 Bala-
was for some time in a condition favourable to purely subjective hallucina-
tions, and therefore would, to BOme extent, weaken the force of the coin-
cidence of the visual hallucination with her brother's death. It will be·
noticed that, allowing for longitude, the death occurred,-accordir.g to tIro
statements in theletters,-about half-an-hour after the apparition. But a.a.
the difference is 80 small, it 88ems to us more probable that it is due t..
errors in the records of the time than that tile apparition was purely
ICcidental. -ED.]
L.-2333.-Ad pa
From Dr. Licbeault, 4, Rue Bellevue, Nancy.
4 Septcmbre 1885.
Je m'erupre88e de vous ecrire au sujet du fait de conmlunicatlOll do-
peDs6e dont je vous ai parlli lorsque vous Ill' IIovez fait l'honneur d'a88istcr a.
mea at!Ances hypnotiques a Nancy. Ce fait se pasaa dl\l1S une famillo
fran~i88 de la Nouvelle-OrlCal18, et qui etait venue 1mbiter quelque temps
Nancy, pour y liquider une afthlre d'interllt. J'avais fait connaisaallce de cette
famille parceque son ellef, M. G., m'avait amone sa nieco, Mlle. B., pOUl"
qae je 10. tmitasse par lea procedlis hypnotil}ues. Elle litait atteinto d'une
anemieIegere et d'une toux nervouse contractllea aCoblentz, dans une maisoll
d'education on elle ctait profeaaour. J tl parvins facilement a1& mottre en
aomnambulisme, ot elle fut guarie en deux seances. La llroductioll de eet.
Digitized by Google
6A Journnl qf Societ!lfol' P8.'Ic""cnl Resenrch. [Oct., 1885..
etat de IIOmmeil ayant demontro a la famille G. et a Mlle. B. qu'ella
JlOurrait facilementdevenir medium (Mmf'. G. etait medium spirite), cette
demoilelle B'exel'9" iuvoquer, al'aide de Ia plume, les esprits, auxquela ella
croyait lincerement, ot au bout de deux mois ellefut un reillarquable medium
ecrivante. C'ostelle que j'ai vuo de mes yeux tracer rapideillent des pages
d'ecriture qu'elle appelait des meaagel, et eela en des termes choisis et II&DS
aucune rature, en meme temps qu'elle tenait conversations avec lea
perBOnnes qui l'entouraient. Chose curieuse, ella n'avait nullemeDr.
conscienca de ce qu'elle ccri~ait j " aUlli," disait-elle, .. ce ne peut etre qu'un
CIIprit qui dirige rna main, ce n'est pas moi."
Un jour-c'ctait, je croia, Ie 7 Fevrier, 18G8-vera 8 heures du matin, au
moment de se mettre atable pour dejednor, elle sentit un bellOin, un quelque-
chole qui la poUBBait a6crire (c'eWt ce qu'olle appelait une trutlU}-et ella
courut inullediatement vers Ion grand cahier, ou elle t1'&9" f6brilement, au
craY(ln, dos caracteres indtlchi1frables. Elle retl'&9a Ies memes caracteres
aur les pages suivantes, et eutin l'excitation de Bon esprit Be calmant, on put.
.lire qu' une personne nomm6a Marguerite lui annon9"it B& mort. On BUJlpoll&
.auBlitOt qu'une damoiaelle de ce nom qui 6tait BOn amie, et habitait, comme
oProfeBSeur, Ie m~me pensionnat de Coblentz ou elle avait exerce leB meme
.fonctionB, venait (\'y mourir. Toute la famille G., compria lflle. B.,
vinrent immediatement chez moi, et noua decidAmes de verifier, Ie jour
mAme, Bi ce fait de mort avait roellemellt eu llau. Mlle. B. ccrivit a. une
demoiBelle anglaise do aeB amis, qui exel'9"it aUlli les memes fonctiona
d'illstitutrioe dans Ie penaionnat en question; elle protexta un
motif, ayant bien lIOin de ne pas reveler Ie motif vrai. Posta
pour poste, nous re9umea une roponle en anglais, dont on me (.'Opia la partie
.saentiolle-roponae que rai retrouvtie dans une portefeuille il y a a peine
quinze joura, et Cgaroe de nouveau. Elle exprimait l'etonnemellt de cetta
demoiselle anglaise au lujet de la lettre dl'Mlle. B., lettre qu' elle n'attendait
pas litOt, vu que Ie but ne lui en para_it pas &B8ez motive. Mail en
meme tempI, l'amie anglaiae Ie hA.tait d'annoneer anotre medium que leur
amie commune, Marguo§rite, ctait morte Ie 7 Fevrier vera les 8 heurel da
matin. En outre, un petit carre de papier imprime etait internS daus 1&
Jettre j c'ctait un billet de mort et de Caire psrt. Inutile dot vous dire que je
veritiai l'enve!oppe de Ia lettra, etque la Icttre me parut venir reellemellt de
Coblentz.
Seulement j'ai eu depuis dea regret&. C'oat de n'avoir pas, danll'intASrit
de la science, demande a la famille G. d' Aller avec eux verifier au bureau
tclCgraphique Ii, reeUement, ill ll'auraientpas fe9u nne depeche tClegraphique
dans I" matinee du 7 Fcvrier. La science ne doit pas avoir de pudeur •
1!a vcriM ne craintpaad'etre vue. Je n'ai comme preuve de I" veracitC du
fait qu'une preuve morale: c'est l'honorabilite de la famille G., qui m' &
!paru t.mjoura audeaul de tout louNon.
A. A. LI~BBAl'LT.
[Apart froID the improbability that the whole family would join in a
conspiracy to deceive their friend, the nature of tha answer received from
Coblentz shows that the writer of it cannot have been aware that any tele-
graphic announcement had been sent. And it is in itself unlikely that the
Ruthorities of the school would have fl'lt it neceB8&ry instantly to communi-
acte the newl to Mdlle. B.]
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1885.] Journal f!f &c~ty for P~uchir(ll Rl'81'flt'ch. 69
L.-2334.-Ae pa
Obtained through the kindness of Mr. J. D. Johnston, M.A., of 17,
Pilrig Street, Edinburgh, from Herr Heinrich von Struve (son of the late.
Ruaaian Minister at Carlaruhe).
25, Pilrig Street, Edinburgh.
lTRA..>iRLATION. ]
July 10th, 1885.
It W811 in the night between the 9th and 10th of November, 1835, that I
felt a suddE.J1 and peculiar yearning, which laid hold of me with great inten-
sity, for my dear mother, who lived in Carlsruhe, in the Grand-Duchy of
Baden. I myself W811 living with my elder brother in the kingdom of
Polaud, in the neighbourhood of the town of Kolo, in the province of
Kalisch, and intended to pass the winter with him. This yearning affected
me so strongly that I resolved to move to Carlaruhe without delay, which I
explained to my brother at breakfast, after I had informed him of my
sodden feeling. It was no small and insignificant journey in those days
IUld at that advanced sesaon of the year. Carlsruhe was over 130 German.
miles from where I was living. As from childhood I had been specially fond
of riding, and was possessed of a very valuable and excellent horse of th&
best breed, I dt'temlined to make the journey on horseback, IUld mounting
my horae at, mid-day on the 10th of November, began my adventurous
cru!A¥le. I pa.ssed through the province of Posen, through Sileaia, Saxony,
and, after crossing the En Mountains and Thurillbria in deep Inow,
through Bavaria. At Jena, where an aunt lived who had always been in the
most intimate relations with my mother, I intended to rest for a few days_
But as abe told me that she had received very sad newl from Carlarulle,.
according to which her dear friend had been attacked by nervous fever and
given up hy the doctors, 1 could not rest, and in the greatest consternation
and anxiety recommenced my journey, and reached Carlllruhe on the 4th of
December. With sinking heart I bAtook myself first to my brother, who-
was attached to the Ruaaian Embassy at the Court of Baden, rushed up the
steps, where my brother received me in great astc:.nishment, and on my
eager inquiry nfter my mother's health, told l11e that the danger had passed
off (had been turned off), and that she was recovl'ring. Then 1 hurried
swiftly to my mother's house, where my sisters lived with her, and they con-
finned the happy neW8. As I then learnt from my elde8t sister, the chief
crisis of the illne8S occurred on the night between the 9th and 10th of
November. when my btlloved mother, in her delirium, continually spoke with.
intense love and care for her youngest son, called me and longed for me. No
furtler a.ssurance is needed that a spiritual mppurt was here shown.
In answer to inquiries, Herr von Struve says :-
"I have never on any other occasion experienced an affection of the samo
eort. and naturally therefore have never had occasion to take action lIll
one."
L.-2335.-Ad pn
18, Batoum Gardens, West Kensington Park.
I have not the least objection to giving an account of the nppnrition I
had of my mother which appeared to mo at the time of her death, although
10 J01I'1"nnl '!f 8ocief!l/ol' P8!1cTdcni Rt'sem·ch. [Oct., 1.RS.t;.
it is a subject I have very rarely mentioned, partly tllat it is an occurrence I
hold very sacred and partly that I do not care to have my story doubted or
laughed at.
I went to school in Alaace in October, 1852, when I was 17, leaving
my mother in England in delicate health. About Christmaa, 1853, 14
lllonths after I Illft home, I heard that my mother's health waa worse, but I
h:t.d no idea that she waa in any danger. It was the laat Sunday in February,
1854, between 1 and 2 o'clock, I W&ll seated in a large school-room reading.
",,'hen suddenly the figure of my motller appeared to me at tIle far end of the
room. She waa reclining as if in bed in her nightdreBB. Her face waa
turned towards me with a sweet smile and one hand was raised a.nd pointing
upwards.
Gently the figure moved across the room, ascending as it went until it.
-disappeared. Both the face and figure were wasted as if by sickness, as I
never lJad lIeell her in lifll, and deadly pale.
From the moment I aaw the apparition I felt convinced my mother waa
-dead. So impressed was I that I was unable to attend to my studies, and
it was positive pain to me to see my younger sister playing and amusing
herself with her compa.nions.
Two or three days after, my governess, after prayers, called me to her
private room. As soon aa we entered I said "You need not tell me. I
know my mother is dead!" She aaked IIle how I could p088ibly know. .}
gl\\'e no explanation, but told her I had known it for three days. I after-
wards heard my mother died on tllat Sunday at the time I had seen her, and
thai; she had paBlled away in !In unconscious state, having been unconscious
for 1I0me day or two before her death.
I am by no means an imaginative, sensitive woman, and never before or
aince have I experienced anything similar.
Ithas always been a comfort to me to feel that my mother did appear to
nle.
ISABEL ALLO)f.
JUlie 28th, 1885.
[Mrs. Allom haa never had a hallucination on any any otller occasion.
She onco, however. lJad a rather marked ilIltsUI», when a Christmas-tre8
assumed momentarily, to her eyes, the aap6ct of ller mother's fornl. She is
a practical person, I\ud assures me that she has all her life been free frqlU
fancies and superstitions. Her sister was delicate and nervolls, and on that
account Mrs. Allom did not tell her of the vision above described. Her
mother was Mrs. Carrick, wife of the well-known miniature-painter; and
at the time of her death she was residing at 10, Montagu Street, Portman
Square, W.-E.G.]
L.-2336.-Ad pn
From Miss Porter, WIlO says :-
This you perceive is only uneducated testimony (to a certain extent).
Mrs. Ellis is daughter to Mrs. Banister, with whom I lodged at Eversley.
The Banisters were formerly well-to-do farmers, but have come down In
the world. lira. Banister now lets her land and takes lodgers into her
Digitized by Google
Oct., 188-').] Journal qf Sor.iet!l fOl' PS!lchical ReMUI,.ch. 71
hoUle. She told me the lltory of her daughter's experient'.e, which I wrote
down and sent to Mrs. Ellis for corroboration. She did not know the date,
but remembers that the day after her experience she heard that J. Stephenson
died the day before. It seems that the man that died had been executor
to Mr. Banister (Mrs. Banister is Awidow), and that Mrs. Ellis bad always
disliked him. considering that be had not done his beat with reqn.rd to the
property. This he knew, And before his death desired to see Mrs. Banister,
but when ahe went to him he was unable to speak, and died almost directly.
I believe these good people to be speaking the truth to the beat of their
powers, but the story, I fancy, has beenfrequtlltly related.
B.P.
P"rtesbery Road, Cauaberley,
-4.tl!lwt 5th.
DEAB. liiss POBTBR.-·What mother hAS told you is quite correct.
In September, 1878, I, then residing in York Town. Surrey, three
times during the day distinct.1y snw the face of an old friend, Mr. James
Stephenson, Wl10 I afterwardll heard died. that day in Eversley, five miles off.
1 saw it at first about half-past 10 in the mon1ing; the last time it was
neatly Go'clock. I knew him to be ill.
JA1IES STEPHENSON,
of Eversley,
WHO DIED SEPTEMBER 19TH, 1878,
IN HIS 59TH YBAR.
Copied from a memorial card.
L.-233'l.-(Borderland.)
MARY ELLIS.
Mrs. Elizabeth Duthie, residing at Pilrig Manse, Edinburgll, having
infonned us, by filling up and signing one of the census·forms, that in
August, 1883, at 9 p.m., she had had a Imllucination representing" an
intimate friend, who died exactly at that hour," E. G. wrote for particulars.
The following answer was received :-
Fronfield, CrimUl, Argyleahire,
AtUJlIst, 2211(1 1885.
DEAR SIR,-Our oM servant, llrs. Duthie, asked me lOme time ago to
reply to your letterto her, requesting more information about a vision she
saw at the time of the deatll of a friend, which she inserted in ono of your
forms. I regret I have been unable to do so until now.
In August, 1883, we had all gone to the country, leaving Mrs. Duthie
alone in the house. An intimate friend of hers, a Miss Gnmt, who lived in
Aberdee~,had been for lOme til11e seriuusly ill, and Mrs. Duthie was anxioul
about her. though sbe did nut know that death WAS lloor. On Sunday night,
the 23rd August, about 8 o'clock, l\Irs. Duthie retired to her room, which is
sepn.rated from the rest (If the llOu~e, willi n. flight of stairs leading up to the
door. She got into bed, aud was lying, hlllf asleep, with her face to tl.O
Digitized by Google
72 Journal Qf Sock/II lor PIJ!lcMcal R"I/I!fll'cll. [Oct., 1885.
------
wall, when she felt that some one was bending over her, looking into her
face. She opened her eyes, and looked up into the face of her friend, Mia
Orant. She stn.rted up in bed, and looking round, 8&W Mias Grant's figur&
leaving the room. She then got out of bed, and going to the door, looked
downatai1'8, but no one was to be seen. She went down the stai1'8 into the
kitchen, butno one was there, nor was there a trace of anyone. She looked
at the clock, and 8&W it was a few minutes put 9, and then went back to
bed, feeling very uncomfortable and certain that something had happened to
her friend.
All next day (Monday), she felt unhappy about it, and waited anxiously
to hear of her friend, but, as there was no one else in the house, she did not;
mention her experience IIf the previous night to anyone. That night she
received infonnatinnfrom Aberdeen that her friend had died at 9 o'clockon
the previous night,-at the very time Mrs. Duthie had seen ber fonn in
Edinburgh.
Sucb are the facts of the case, as Mrs. Duthie 1188 told me heraelf, and
this, I believe, is her sole experience of any such hallucination.
Believe me, yOU1'8 very truly,
O. W. MACPHAIL.
L.-2338.-A" P D
From Rev. J. Hotham (Congregational minister), of Port Elliot, South
Australia. [He is now dead and his son says that no more infunnation can
be obtained.]
1884.
I was spending an evoning with a family (friends of mine), consisting of'
an elderly widow lady and two or three of her daughte1'8. The conversation
happened to turn upon the" supernatural," wben they gave me the following
account. Though M1'8. Leaworthy (for that was her nallle) was the principal
speaker, yot the daugllte1'8 corroborated her statements. I wrote out the
account the sallle evening, a little more condonsed, but in nearly the same
language in which it was given.
" 'Ve woro," sl~id she, "at tllat time, 1841, living on the coast of Devon
and the night was very stonny; it was raining heavily and the wind blowing
8 perfect gale. Mr. L.'s men (he was in the Preventive service) came t...
teU hilll that rockets were seen being sent up out at SOB, and signal lights
burning. He wont out with tho men and put oft' in his lxl8t to render
assistance. They succeeded in reaching the veuel, which was drifting help-
l_ly towards that terrible coost. Tbey managed to catch a rope thrown
from her, and llOlding on, sheltered on the lea-side, tho whule of the
8&ilo1'8 were taken into the boat, not excepting a poor boy who was ill in his
berth. But the captain refused to leave the ship. He 8&id he would go
down with her. Jlrlr. L. had got on board and 8&W that she could not Boat
many minutes; 80 he told the OBptain that if he would not leave her he
would wait no longer, and with that jUllll1ed into the sea and made for the
Digitized by Coogle
Oct., 1885.] Journnl f!f Society/or P,ychicnl ReBl!nrcll. 73
boat. But the instinctive lo\"e of life proved t.()() strong, alld the captain
lea}>l->d from the ship at the same time and also got safely in. They then
eounted OVtlr ",hat they had got, and finding the number complt'te they
pulled for the shore. The ve88el went down almost before they left her.
She turned uut to be a French ship, called L'9rimt, witb French captaia
and crew. The captain, during his stay in the neighbourhood, was a t:onstan~
visitor at. our hoUle, and became quite a favourite. (Mr. L. could spea!..
French, for he WII.8 10 years a prilOner in France.) The ca}Jtain, after he·
had recovered frolll his cold and wetting, told us that he was lIure 8Omething:
BeriOUB had happened at; hume. When uked why he thought 80, he said
that just before the stornl came on he had Beeu hiB wife standing clolW'
beside hint, aud that she had said: •Do not grieve for me.' Well. we all'
tried to put thiB llleL'mcholy idea out of his head. We told him he was low··
spirited at the 1088 of hiB ship, and that nothing but imagillatic.n had made
him fancy this thing.
.. Of COU1'lle the captain wrote directly home, giving an acconnt of the loss.
(If his ship Ilnd cargo, and anxiously awaited a reply. He was detained son~
weeks among us, and during that time we became very intimate. III du~
time he recei"ed a letter infonning him that his wife had been confined. and
motlter Ilnd child were botb doing well. We then joked llim about his fears,
and congratulated him upon the good news he had received. During the
weeks he further remaiued with us we set to and made up a box of pt'esents-
small things, &c., for the baby. After completing all his arrangements, he
bid us good·bye and started for home. A letter from him, h()wever, informed
UI that the presentiment Will too truly fulfilled. HiB wife died on that
night; but when hiB friends received hiB letter mournfully detailing the 1088
of hiB ve88el, they were .afraid to send him word about the 1088 of his wife"
and 80 replied as we have said."
Soath Australia, Port Elliot.
October 17th, 1884.
DEAR SIR,--I acknowlc(lge the desirableness of having all the particulars
of the Cd.8C I sent you, and e3pecially given by one or morc of the parties
actually concernccl in it.
!Irs. Lco.worthy, senior, has recently died. Her daughters are still living
-one (:Mrs. Lindsay) only a. short distance from me; and the other, who
married 1\Ir. Jolm Hincllllarsh, only IOn of our first Colonial Governor, has
removed to New Zea.land.
In answer to your questions-(I) The account wu given me at t,he house·
of Mr. Jno. Rindmarsb, near Port Elliot, South Australia. (2) Yes. By
.. died on that night" I mean on the night he saw the apparition-the night
the stonn began.
JNO. HOTRA-X.
P.S.-I do not knuw whether I told y()u, but ought to havc done if I did
DOt, th3t my MS. Will submitted to Mn. Leaworthy, aad corrected by hel"
hefor6 I aont it you.
I'
Digitized by Google
74 Jo",'nal qf Socie/!I lor PS!lchical Restart",
L.-2339.-(Collective. Borderland.)
From Mr. John Done, Stockley Cottage, Stretton,
(See M.-317-Cl.)
[Oct., 188150
My sister-in-law, Sarah Eust&nce, of Stretton, WIUIlyingsick unto dea.th9
and my wife was gone over to there from Lowton Chapel (12 or 13 miles oft)
to IOe her and tend her in her laat momenta. And on the night before her
death (some 12 or 14 hours before) I WIUI sleeping at home alone, and awaking
heard a voice distinctly call me. Thinking it WIUI my niece, Rosanna, the
only other occupant of the house, who might be sick or in trouble, I went to
har room and found her awake and nervous. I uked her whether she had
called me. She answered "No j but BOmething awoke me, when I heard
someone calling! "
On my wife returning bome ~after her sister's death, she told nle how
anxious her sister bad been to see me, .. craving for me to be sent for," and
saying .. Oh, how I want to see Done once more!" and soon after became
.peechlesa. But the curious part WIUI that about the same time she was
.. craving," I and my niece heard the call.
JOHN DONB.
Stockley Cottage, Stretton, Warrington.
AU1f!UlC lat, 1885.
In answer to your queries respecting the voice or call that I heard on
tIle night of July 2nd, 1866, I must explain tItat there was a strong
aympatItyand affection between myself and my sister-in-law of pure brotherly
and sisterly love j and, that ahe was in the habit of calling me by the titJe
of " Uncle Done," in the manner of a husband calling his wife "mother"
when there are children as in tItis caae. Hence the call being "Uncl~
uncle, uncle!" leading me to think that it was my niece (tIte only other
occupant of the house that Sunday night) calling to mo.
Copy of funeral card: .. In remembrance of the late Sarah Eust&nce,
wbo died July 3rd, 1866, aged 45 years, and WIUI this day interred at
Stratton Church, July 6th, 1866."
My wife, who went from LowtOIl that particular Sunday to see her sister,
will testify that Mslte attended upon her (after the departure of the minister).
during the night she WIUI wishing and craving to see me, repeatedly
saying, "Oh, I wish I could see {Jncle Done and Rosie once more before
I go!" and soon after tben she became ullconscious, or at leaat ceased
apeaking, and died the next day, of which fact I WIUI not aware until mywifo
returned on the evening of the 4th of July.
I hope my niece will answerfor me, however I may state that shc reminda
me that she thought I was calling her and WIUI coming to, me, when she met.
lne in the passage or landing, and Mked her if fhe called me.
I do not remember evor hearing a voice or call besides tItis the above case.
JOHN DONB.
On August 7th, Mr. Done writes :-
My wife being sick and weak of body, dictates the following statement
to me:-
I, Elizabeth Done, wife of John Done, and niece [clearly a slip for aunt]
to Rosanna Done (now Sewill), testify that, on tIte 2nd of July, 1866, I
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1885.] Journal (II 8ociet!llor P&!lckical Re&earck. 75
...... attending upon my dying lister, Sarah EUitance, at Stretton, 12 miles.
from my home at Lowton Chapel, Newton Ie Willows; ....hen during the
night previous to her death Ihe craved for me to send for my husband and
niece &I Ihe wished to ace them once more before ahe departed hence,
aaying often "Oh, I wish Done and Rosie were here. Oh, I do long to see
Lncle Done." Soon after Ihe became speechless and leemingly uncon-
scious, and died some time during the day following.
(Signed) ELIUJlITH DONB.
Stockley Cottage, Stretton, Warrington.
Augwt 11th, 1885.
In thinking, conversing, and writing about the strange occurrence, several
incidents have come to my mind, one of which is that, feeling unsettled in my
mind during the day after having heard the voice calling me, and feeling a
presentiment that my dear sister·in·law was dead, I, towards evening, set off
to meet a train at Newton Bridge, which I believed she would come by
returning home, if her nater teCU dead al I 8Zptcted. N.B. There was an
undel'lltanding that Ihe was to ltay at Stretton to attend upon Mrs. Eustance
until her demise or convalescence.
I met my wife lOme few hundred yards from the station and could see
by her countenance that my surmises were correct. She then told me the
particulars of her sister's death, how ahe longed to aee me and Rosanna. I
then told her of our being called by a voice resembling hers lome time in the
night prenow, when she (my wife) said she (Mrs. Euatance) often repeated
our names during the night before becoming unconscioUi.
JOHN DONB.
11, Smithdown Lane, Paddington, Liverpool.
Atlfl1l.llt 21st, 1885.
Sm,-At my uncle's and your request I write to confirm the 8tatement of
uncle respecting the voice I heard, as follows; I was awakened 8uddenly
without apparent cause, and heard a voice call me distinctly, thu8; /Wit}, /W'Y.
roOlll! Thinking it was my uncle calling, I rose and went out of my room
and met my uncle coming to see if I was calling him. We were the only
occupants of the hOUie that night, aunt being away attending upon her sister.
The night I was called was between 2nd and 3rd of July, 1866. I could not
.y the time I was called, but I know it was the break of day. I never waa
called before nor since.
ROSANNA SBWILL.
L.-I307.-Ad pn (Amended Version)
The following is the account at first hand of the incident narrated in slip
l307. It ....ill be seen that the difference is considerable ;-
From Mr. W. T. Bray, of Schekoldin's Paper Mill. Vimiahma,
Government of ViOltroma, Russia.
June 14U" (0. S.) 1885.
I w.. employed as assistant engineer on the Moscow - Rail....ay.
&lid one day was standing in the erecting shop. There were 14 engines Wider
gitized by e;8ogI
76 Journalqf Society lor P8.Ilcllicnl Re8enrr". [Oct., 1885.
repair, and four tenders, and amidst all the attendant noiae of such work of
fitters and boilermakers, 1 heard a voice quite close to me call twice, "Will.
WillI" The voice resembled my father's (he 11'&1 the only person who called
me .. Will "), and in a tone he uaed when he wished to particularly draw my
attention to anything. (I had parted bad friends with him in Ruaaia through
my step-mother.) When 1 went home 1 remarked to my wife 111'&1 afraid if
ever 1 heard from poor father again or from anyone about him, it would be
bad news, for 1 distinctly heard him call me twice. About three weeki
afterwards 1 had a letter from a sister, stating he had died, and when,
and his last words were, "Good-bye, Will ! good-bye, WillI" Upon com-
paring the date and time he diedabout the time 1 heard the voice.
Mr. Bray, adds in a later letter dated Augu,t 211t, (O.S.), IS&) :-
1 am sorry1 cannot get a few linea likely to confirm my statement to you
the circumstance occurred so long ago. 1 remember mentioning it to my
wife at the time, but she cannot distinctly remember it, and 1 mentioned it
to no one but her, and then only at the time. 1 remembered the work 1 was
looking after at the time, and upon hearing of my father's death 1 traced the
time by the factory books, and as no one either here or in England eyer
called me .. Will," but he, 1 always feel quite BRtiafioo in my own mind
that I heard his voice, especially &I 1 11'&1 told in the letter announcing his
death his last words were" Good-bye, Will ! good-bye, Will ! "
In auswer to the question whether he had ever had any other auditory
hallucination, Mr. Bray replies :-Such a thing never occurred to me before.
neither hasanything occurred since.
L.-2340.-Ae pn
The writer of the following narrative is Editor of a well-known northenl
newspaper, and 11'&1 formerly special foreign correspondent of a London
paper. He had a curious impre8Bion .corresponding with the death of a
friend a few weeks earlier. (See L. 86.)
Decembtr 11th, 1884.
On tIle 3nl of May in the BRme spring [1882J in which Barnes left us, my
wife, while taking tea with my daughter, was suddenly seized with an epileptic
fit, fell heavily to the floor and striking her forehead on the fender; she
11'&1 ne,·erconscioUB again, but died the next day. This accident happened
between 3 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon. For nearly 5 years my wife bad
intennittelltly suffered from epilepsy, but for lOme 3 months before her
death seemed to have completely recovered, whi9h apparent fact had caused
much joy in our little family circle, &I the poor dear had been a great sufferer.
1 aet this down to show that her death or aerious illnOBB was not at all expected
at the time it happened. On the morning of the 3rd of May 1 left for the
City, and &I my wife kissed her band to me at the window 1 thought how
remarkably well and " like her old self" she appeared. 1 went to busineBB
in .. high spirits," and left her in the BRme j but IOmttollere about the time
abe fell-neither my daughter nor 1 have been able to fix the time within an
bour-I suddenly fell into such a fit of gloom that I was powerle8B to go on
"ith my work and could only sit with my face between my hands, scarcely
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1885.] Journal of Societylor PS!lcla"cal Research. 77
able to speak to my colleagues in the aame office, who became alarmed as
~ey hnd neverseen me in any but a cheerful mood. I waa at the time
editing E,IglaIln., and as friend after friend dropped into my room, and
I'flU1ted to know what ailed me, I could only explain my sensation in &
phrase (which they and I well remember) which I kept repeating, namel.)'•
.. I have a horrible sense of some impending calamity." So far aa I &ill
aware, my thoughts never once turned to my home. If they had, I think I
should not have accepted, as I did, an invitation to dine with Do friend at a
restaurant ill the Strand, pressed on me for the express purpose of " cheering
me up." I was telegraphed for to our office in the Strand, but by an accident
it was not forwarded to me to Whitefriars Street at my editorial room: so
that I never saw my wife until after 12 at night, when my 8 or 9 hours fear-
ful depression of spirits (as it instantly struck me) were accounted for. I may
add that I &ill mturally of a buoyant temperament, in fact I may say far
above the average of people in that respect, and I wasnever to my knowledge
ever 110 suddenly or similarly depressed before. My wife, in this case you
will observe, was not dead but simply unc01l8cious when my fit of low spirits
!let in. There are several witnesses who can testify to these facts.for when it be-
cameknown at the office that my wife was dead the strange coincidence of my
80ddenly " turning so queer" was a topic ofconvenation there. I have nothing
to add but that we (my wife and I) had been married for 2& years, and were
extremely fond of each other,and we were both,I should say,of a. sympathetic
temperament, perhaps more than ordinarily so.
Sepu..nlnr ht, 1886.
I called to-day at Mr. --'s house. He was out of town, but his son
and daughter were a.t home.
As regards Mr.--·s depression on the day of his wife's fatal attack
they both nssured me that he spoke of this immediately after his return
home on the evening of that day, and has frequently mentioned it since. The
son has also heard one of his father's colleagues, Mr. Green, describe the
circumstance as something quite remarkable. Mr. Green told him that both
himself and others present in the office did all they could to rally Mr.-·-
but failed.
F.P.
I had a long interview with Mr. -- in February of this year. He gave
to mea "ivd ooce account of the experience here detailed in writing, and I
should judge that his testimony is of a high degree of trustworthiness and his
power of observation of a high order.
The statement Mr. -- made to me was vivid and circumstantial, and
not, in my opinion, coloured by his imagination.
A. G. LEONARD.
Netherworton Houlle, Steeple Aston, Oxon.
8tptembe"16th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-My friend Mr. --, of Ellgland, has asked me to corroborate
the fact that he suffered from a singular depression all the day of his wife's
fatal seizure. I was in his company mOlt of theday, and can fully cor-
roborate his statemcnt.-Yours truly, C. E. GREEN•.
gitized by (.oogI ~.,
78 Journal of 80cktg for P8!1chical Reaearch. [Oct., l.8I!5.
L.-2341.-Ae po
[The following, from a lady who desires her name not to be published, is
perhapB an inatance of the Barne kind aa the laat, though both the depression
and the time-coincidence are 1011 definite. Ten o'clock a.m. here would be
about 3.30 p.m. at Colombo.]
Auguat 6th, 1885.
My experience is a very Bimple one, and enn be Btated in a few worda.
A dear brother was in Singapore, and I knew he waa awoUl about his wife'..
health, but ltill, beyond feeling eager for letten, had no great anxiety on his
or her account. I must Btate that he and I in all our relationa and eelingB
have belin, all our lives, mOlt singularly in unison and sympathy with one
another.
The moming of thia Btrange experience I was in my studio; it W&8 the
25th of October, 1884:, and I waa at work aa usual. About 10 o'clock I felt
very uneaay and reatleB8, and found my efforts to work did notsend away the
unUBual feeling of disinclination and unquietnlllS. I did }lot attribute theae
feelinga to any anxiety about my brother's dom8Btic troubleB, but 1 told my
companion in the studio, as 1 put my work away, that 1 knew BOmething W&B
happening, and that it was impOBBible for me to work that day.
I may add that this was a most unusual occurrence, and had never before
happened during my life lUI an artist. I find as a rule that I have only to
begin work to wiah to continue it.
About half-put two a telegramarnved to me from Colombo, telling UI
of the death of hia wife the previous night, and I have heard since of the
terrible mental pain my brother suffllred, and 1 know that in any such pain
I should have been the one person he would have appealed to and wiahed
to commune with. He had travelled with his wife to Colombo, bringing her
home, and that we did not know of until tho telegram arrived. He died.
within a month after hia loIS, and during the interval 1 was the only one he
wrote to of his great grief.
L.-2342.-Ad PI
Letter to the Rev. J. A. Macdonald, from Mrs. HarriBon, of Park View.
Queen's Park, Manchester,
&ptcmber 2nd, 1885.
I had a dear uncle, John Moore, St. John's, Isle of Man. 1 knew he
had fa.iled in health and strength during the winter of 1883 and 1884:, but.
was not aware that he was really ill, or worse, so had not been thinking Q{
him more than UBual, noranticipating a change; on the contrary, I was rather
lIBIlguine that, with the retum of spring, his strength would revive, know-
ing that he had only two years before recovered from a Bevere illn88S, his
conatitution being BO excellent, though he was 85 yeara old when he W&B
taken away. But on the night of the 1st of March, orvery early on tho mom-
ing 2nd, 1884 (I did not ascertain the time, but 1 had retired to r8Bt very late
and seemed to have slept two or three hours) 1 awoke crying, and with the
agitating seene of my dream clear before me. It waa that I stood in the
bedroom of my uncle, that he lay there dying, his remaining family near him,
I JUBt a short distance from the bed looking on. When I joined my hUBband
and daughter at the fireaide on coming downstain in the moming 1 told them
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1885.} Journal qf 8ociet!l/o-r P'!lchrcal Re,eorch. 79
my dream, and then thought no more about it till two days later, 4th
March, when a letter arrived, saying that my uncle had paaaed aWAY at 2
o'clock on the morning of the 2nd. May our end be aB calm and peaceful
.. WaB hi.a.
R. J. ILuuusoN.
[Mrs. Harriaon can recall no other dream of death.]
Mr. Harriaon corroborates aB follows ;-
September 2nd, 1885.
I distinctly remember my wife telling me the above dream on the Sunday
morning, 2nd March. 1884, and it hu often been spoken of in the family
sinee. The letter acquainting us of Mr. Moore's death arrived at Man-
cb08ter,from the Isle of Man. two days after. N., Tuesday, 4th March,1884.
J. P. HAJUUSON.
L.-2343.-AI P
16, Edwardes Square, Kensington, W.
MaTch 20th, 1885.
I do not know whether the following experience.is of any practical
interest, but will relate it aB being at laut curious.
I cannot be certain of the precise year, but know that it was winter-
and I believo that of 1870-71. My sister and I were constant companions,
and slept in the same room, but in separate beds. We burnt no light at
night. I 11'&8 then 20 yean old, and my aiater 18. She 11'&8 (If a very calm,
placid temperament, and not in the laut given to having exciting dreams.
One night I was roused out of my sleep by her calling me by name with a
IOrt of acream, and on immediately starting up in bed I BAli' the room filled
with a bright red light, which extended to the p&888ge outside our door
(which we always left half open at night), 80 that I could distinctly see an
arch that WaB in it, and also a blaze of red in the sky outBide the window. The
time WaB 2 a.m. Hearing my sister crying and in great distreu, I sprang out
of bed to go to her. and in that moment the impreuion faded, and the room
became &8 dark &8 usual. My sister then told me that ahe had had a fright-
ful dream of the devil coming to fetch her in a blaze of red fire-that her only
hope had been to call to me to save her, but that aB usual in nightmares, she
aeemed to have been agos calling before she could make me hear.
Must sho not in lOme way, through her intense desire to communicate
with me, have succeeded in impreuing upon my brain what ahe BAli' in hor
dream. and thus produc\ld the curious imprcuion I received 1
If required. I shall be happy to aDlJwer Any further questions that may
be neceuBry to authenticate this.
EDITH N. WILSON.
lira. Alleyne, of Ranakeheen, Nenagh, Ireland, writes :-
Jul1l 25th.
Ify sister, Mrs. WilaoD, asked me, lOme little time ago, to send
you my account of the dream I had many years ago, in which she also
bore a part. I now enclose my recollection of the dream, which I hope may
be of use to you.
E. A. K. ALLBYD.
Digitized by Google
80 JOIwnal qf Sockf!1 .for P8!lcllical RI'8l'arcl•. [Oct., 1885.
About 16 years ago, the sister next to me in age and myself occupied
the same bedroom, but slept in separate beds, about three feet apart. The
approach to our room was by a long, narrow passage, and the unly window in
the room overlooked the high. alated roof of uur large schooiroom, which abut
out any view of the surrounding country. It was uur rule to sleep with the
door shut and bolted. One morning, between 1 and 2 a. m., I dreamt that I
was lying in my bed wide awake, when, to my great surprise, I perceived that
the door was fully open. I was wondering how this could be, when I &aW,
approaching down the pa.asa.ge, a vivid red light, which gradually (as it came
nearer) became redder and redder. In my horror I gave a loud scream, which
awakened me, and before I had time to say une word, my sister started up,and
called out, "Oh! Emmy,whatis thatred ligh~onthe roofopposite t' A moment
afterwards, when fully awake, we saw that the room was in darkn('.ss, and on
8triking a light, that the door was shut and locked, as when we went to bed.
This dream made a powerful impression upon us both. Since my birth this
sister and myself had been dailycompanions, and being next in age to me, I
had shared almost every thought with hor. It Illust, therefore, I think, have
been a case of " unconscious cerebration."
E. A. K. ALLEYNE.
In reply to inquiries. Mrs. Alleyne says :-
A tlgtcat 101h.
?try sister has made a mistake in thinking my dream was mixed up, in any
way, with his Satanic Majesty; and she is wrong also about the door; it was
always shut and bolted at night. I could not go to sltlep with it open.
My sister, at that time, was in very poor health, and my memory has at all
times heen a vory clear o.le. You ask me if I was given to horrifying
dreams ; I was not, beyond an occasional nightmare now and then, com-
mon to all. I was, at the timo, about 161, and my sister just 18 years old.
In another letter, she adds :-
S~pttmbel' 211t, 1885.
In reply to your note, I beg to say that my sister and I flerer
drew tho curtains at night, neither did we draw down the blind; we
always slept with it up. The only other window at that side of the house
was that of my father's dressing-room, and was quite at the end of Ule long
passage before referred to. My father was away in Scotland at the time, and
his dressing-room ,vas unoccupied.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To U,e Edito-r of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-As the secretary of the (lId Pllysica.l Phenomena Commi~tee, you
will, perhaps, allow me to offer some explanation in defence uf the prolongpd
silence of that Committee, commented on by Mr. Myers in his letter to the
Augllst number of the Journal.
:Mr. Myers Will, I believe, aware of the course of our inquiries, and Ule
Digitized by Google
Oct., lS8.'i.] Journal of Socil't!lfor P8.'Ichical Research. 81
impoaaibility of attaining anything like unanimity in our estimate of the
meagre results we obtained.
Our inv8lltigations w~re at the outset limited by the general principle,
which we undel'lltood to have been laid down, that. the funds of the Society
Mould not be spent in the eml)loyment of paid mediuDls, so that we were
compelled to have recourse to the assistance of friends of a member of the
Committee, who were supposed to po88e88 mediumistic powel'll. Results--
table-tilting, raps, &c.-were obtained, which, if they could have been
obtained under satisfactory tests, would have been conclusive; but 88 such
testa could not be applied, I myself and other members of the Committee
were not convinced that th8lle phenomena were not the result of fraud,
conscious or unconscious.
This view could, of course, not be put forward without wounding the
feelings of other members of the Committee, and, therefore, I Jlersonally
deemed it undesirable to present allY report on these inquiries.
Those members of the Committee who were not convinced of the genuine
character of tl.8II1l phenomena wished to continue the investigatif'ns, but this
we were unable to do.
As we could not procure the aBBistance of other private mediums, it was
decidod that seven members of the Physical Phenomena Committee, together
with other members of the Society, should sit-inf<>nually--with Mr.
Eglinton. A seri811 of six seances was held. but the result 11'88 negative, the
phenomena obtained not being of such a nature 88 to eliminate the l'088ibility,
or cven probability of fraud.
Th8lle aCanc811 appear to be those referred to by Mr. Haughton, and if BO,
he has bee:l singularly misinformed. So far from our not giving Mr. Eglinton
a fair chance, we requested him to continue our sittings, which he willingly
consented to do, and several more seances were held. As, however, Mr.
Eglinton declinod to accept any fee for this seri811 we did not ftlel oUl'llelv811
jllBtiJied in prolonging it indefinitely, 88 practically no result was obtained,
and Mr. Eglinton himself appeared to have lost heart, and to be anxious to
discontinue sitting.
I, 88 a representative of the Physical Phenomena Committee, 88sisted Mr.
Podmore in his inquiry into the Morell Theobald case, and fully shared the
conclusions he arrived at.
Mr. Theobald, at the time of our visit, said that he hoped BOon to admita
delegate of the Society to his circle, but, 88 Mr. Myers states, the conditions
necessary have not yet been fulfilled.
I think, in conclusion, I may venture to add that the Physical Phenomena
CommittA'e subeequently ceased from ita labours, not from want of zeal, bu,
from the impossibility of finding work within ita field of inquiry.-I am.
air, &c.,
FRANK S. HuallU.
There is one sentence in Mr. Hughes' letter which seems to require
a few words of explanation from me, as Chairman of the Council during
the time when the investigations of the Physical Phenomena Committee
were being carried on. Mr. Hughes speaks of the" general principle,
tha~ the funds of the Society should not be spent in the employment of
Digitized by Google
82 JO""llfll of Societ!J Jor PS!Jchical Researcll. (Oct... 1885.
paid mediums" as having been "laid down." So far as I can rememberp
no express resolution to this effect was ever passed by the Council: th&
question was never formally brought before that body. But in the
address which I delivered at the first General Meeting of the Society, I
had expressed the opinion that our investigation ought to be "as much
as possible directed to phenomena where, at any rate, no pecuniary
motives to fraud could come in;" that is, to phenomena occurring in
.. private families or circles of friends." I said, indeed, that" it would
be a mistake to lay down a hard and fast rule that· we may not avail
.ourselves of the ser\ices of paid performers or paid mediums;" but I
implied that I had a strong preference for the other kind of investiga.-
tion. When the matter was afterwards informally discussed in the
Council, I expressed a similar opinion, and I belie"e that my view
was shared by one or two other members present; but-so far as I
recollect-no formal resolution was passed.
I have written tills, not by way of criticism on Mr. HughesP
statement, which appears to me very fairly to represent the facts of
the case, but merely to take upon myself the share of responsibility
that properly belongs to me for the course taken by his Committee.
H. SIDGWICK.
The following letter from Mr. Morell Theobald also relates to the
discussion between Mr. Haughton, and Mr. Myers which appeared in
tbe August number of this journal. It will, perhaps, convince Mr.
Haughton, and any other members of tbe Society who share his
dissatisfaction at the slow progress of our inquiries, that nothing
further can at present be done in this matter by persons outside the
circle of Mr. TheobalJ's family and intimate friends; since, as Mr.
Theobald says, an extraneous "investigation such as would satisfy
the Society" as to the extra·human origin of the phenomena re-
ported "is inadmissible under the present conditions." Therefore-to
quote Mr. Haughton's words-" if there be frau:l or lying in the case"
it must be left to Mr. Theobald, or others wbo have opportunities of
closely and continuously observing the phenomena, to "track it home."
H. S.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THB SOCIBTY l"OR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
SIR,-In the August number of your Jo"mal, Mr. Myers, in replying to
Mr. Haughton, and referring to the marvellous phenomena which are con·
.tantly occurring in my home circle, says (the italics are mine) :-
" I quite agree with 1\lr. Haughton that some further investigation of this
cue is to be desired. Mr. Theobald kindly offered to allow some delegate of
our Society to join his circle •if the spirit.! would allow it ': but this condition
does not yet seem to have been fulfilled. We can, therefore, do nothing more
in the matter at pnuent."
1 am not "ware of any former reference to these phenomena by your
Digitized by Google
Od.,l885.] Journal of Soci~tulor PS!lcllical Bemlrch. 83
Society, nor am I aware that the Society baa done anything to which the
.. nothing more" can be a sequence; but I am glad to take this opportunity,
if you will allow me a little space, of stating exactly what ill my attitud&
with reference to the Society for Psychical Research of which, though noli.
now on the Council, I am still a member.
My own poaition &I regards the phenomena baa been, 10 far &I the.
public ill concemed, primarily that of a recorder of facts, and I haV&
endeavoured further to afford every facility in my power for their eumina-
tion and elucidation.
I did not publish such remarkable phenomena until all in our family
circle were absolutely certain of their occurrence and of their abnormal
quality; nor have I ever refused any investigation by outsiden into them,
but at considerable peraonal inconvenience often accepted and facilitated it.
Mr. Myen says I "kindly offered to allow lOme delegate of the Society
for Psychical Research to join our circle •if the spirits would allow it''':
I do not remember having made any such promise, although it expre88ea
very much what 1«U my wish lOme time ago. Experience baa proved to me,
however, that such an investigation &I would satiBfy the Society ill inadmiaa-
able under present conditions, and no one can regret this more than myself.
Permit me brielly to explain. In "SpiritualiBm at Home," and in Light, Ii
have recorded phenomena which occur in our house daily, not when sitting
en _nee, which ill comparatively rare, but at all houn of the day. Can
anyone tell me how the Society could investigate them without having .'
representative billeted in the hoUle, which would be utterly distasteful to.
III, and (I &peak from experience) destructive of the phenomena 1
Let me refer to • few of the phenomena in illustration of this. The fire-
lighting (by agency to anyone invisible but our medium, who ill clairvoyante-)
has now gone on continuously under our own closestobservation for over two
yean, not in the early moming only, but at all hoUl'll of the day, in many
rooms, and under many conditions. Sceptical ~t tint &I to its origin, anJ
exercising, &I we did, the clOleBt scrutiny, our spirit friends were often
unable, even when they wanted to render us this help, to do 10. If we
ounelves aaaume the detective attitude, and try to catch the fire.liI(hten in
the act, our watching spoils the conditions, and we are obliged to become
puaive before the phenomena can be resumed. Even under conditions of
their own suggestion they have failed, while under conditions as absolutely
testing, taken at the spur of the moment, they have succeeded: and now
we have recorded what we have oUl'llOlves "en. I am quite aware how a.
ecientitic mind, devoid of faith in the origin which we are now a.urea of..
can 10 manipUlate these statements of mine &I to prove that we are. or may
be, or must be, all under a delusion: but if testimony ill to be taken, and
to gather force by accumulation, we can recount CUt'll which only have to be-
multiplied by what would be deemed to be a sufficient number for the fact.
to be established. Your apace forbids the noceBl&ry detail. But how could
the Society (&I such) teat the truth of our &lBertions? Suppose you lent a
delegate : would he Bee more than I did myself in the initiation of these-
fire·lightinga, when I watched, shivering in an overcoat, night and moming 1
I can hardly think 10; but, though hiB failure could not prove a negative, it
would nourish acepticiBm and complicate our poaition. Since I had tho
Digitized by Google
8l Jourl/ol qf Sociei!1 fo,. P8!lcllicfll Rellenrc". [Oct.,l885.
t3mority to publish those faots, 1 have heard th'\t phenomena of this class
are not confined to Granville P"rk, but m!\ny p30ple who know (If simil&r
phenomena have not t.he courago to face the at.tacks which inevitably follow
their publication. Fire-lighting, then, by occult power must, it BeelUS, for
the present be acceptel on t 'stimoll!l or not at all, and it seems to me one
of the 108sons investigators have to learn is how to revise the laws of
scientific evidence so as to moet the subtle and delicate conditions of
psychical phenomena when personal scrutiny is impossible. The II\llle
holds good-perhaps even in a greater measure-WI regards the COIll-
p!ete making of tea by occult power, from kettles previously, by the
same power, filled and brought to the boiling point, and thl: frequent;
transportation of material objects from one place to another, notably of
boiling water fl'Om one kettle to another at a distance. You must fimt
develop clairvoyance among your delegates befuro they can aee in our hoU88
either the actors or the l)henom~na, and then you must settle among your-
selves how evidence of this kind is to be dealt with. These things c~nnl)t;
be done at our bidding or 1 would gladly ask the Society in II. body to come
and see for themselves; but any delegate set to watch would be as inadmiss-
able as a privat.e detective-and the results would be merely negative. And
yet the phenomena occur: they not only exist-they abound; and we have
staked our reputation for truth and accuracy on what we have recorded. We
have sacrificed a great dMI to obtain such a happy facility of exposition in
oar midst, but we are not prepared for perpetual detective supervision. The
theories created under such conditions, even if the phenomena occurred,
would only lead to the requirement of further tests, and probably put an
end to their re::urrellCd. Bllt there is one class ,of our phenomena whicli
h!ls blen oftan investiga.ted by men as capable as any your Society could
name, and acoopted by them as proven. 1 refer to direct .pirU-tI1I'Hing3, of
which we now have many hundreds, lOme of thnm done while members of
your Society have been present. These writings-notwithstanding some very
h!\5ty and foolish criticisms-bear on the surface of them prima facie evidence
of abnormal origin, even if the one of which we are convinced cannot be
a::cepted. Some writings were placed, at my request, on the ceilings (I will
refer to one presently), and 1 am convinced that:no other than an occult
theory can be sustained for one moment after a proper examination of the
writings themselves and of the circumstances purrounding them. 1 regret
that ceilings in Granville Park sha.re the fate of others, and aro not impervious
to smoke and dust, so that most of the original writings have caught the
white-washer's "distemper," and vanished. But we have recently had
80me additions which cannot possibly square with the theories occasionally
suggested by those who have not seen the originals. 1 regret I cannot send
you flU ,imile,. I have tried but failed as yet to obtain photographs of tllem.
Will you try 1 But while contending for the spirit origin of these writings.
as 1 who know all abuut them and nly llousellold have a right to do, 1 do not
rega.rd them of such scientific value (in fact, they are of very little lCientific
value until human testimony is accepted as evidence of facts which are not
capable of being submitted to experiment) as otI1ers I could ahow to any
approved dele~tes from your Society.
Permit me here to record one or two facts which have recently occurred.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 18&•.] JotmurloJ Societ!l/ol' P8,11cMcai R'·8eal'cll. 85
and which 1 apprehend you will agree with me are not easily reached by
.mentillc testa.
After I, with my wife, had gone to our cottago at Haslemere in July
Jut, and lef~ my daughter, my 8Ona, and Mary* to follow U8 in a few daya,
I am told this occurred:-
My da.ughter and Mary had "packed up" their luggage on the upper
Hoor, and amongst other luggage was a bath which when filled they could
Dot move; they, therefore, left it on the top floor to be brought down by
the cabman, and canle down to breakfast, They were then left (Mary and
my da'lghwr) alone in the house. On these two going upstairs together they
met the bath in t,'al&3itu ! and 80 paased it on the stairs. A few minutes
arter, on coming down, the said bath had reached the landing on the first
floor. Here Mary atayed to have a bath (I mention this fact as important)
and my daughter went down to the ground floor. As aoon as ahe heard Mary
come out of the bath·room she ran up to meet her, and found that during the
timeMary had been in the bath-roomtheheavypackage had boen taken down-
stairs to the front door, and, moreover, all the other luggage had alao been
taken down from the top of the houae and placed on the top of the bath.
Here is a case of transportation the evidence for which is entirely IUp·
ported by the word of my daughter and Mary jointly, but it is a thing that
probably would not have happened if a watcher had been there! 1 have no
lea80n whatever for disbelieving, but every reason for accepting their assertion.
Agaiu, last Sunday evening at Haslemere, during our family Hance, 1
had a long conversation with a spirit speaking through Mary, entranced.
The conversation was entirely beyond her in her normal state, and went into
the question of passing matter through matter: but it is to a promise then
made-not only by this voice, but alao by direct 3pirit.wrWllg a few minutt>a
later, that I wish now to refer, as it has since been carried out under perfect
test conditions. The spiritpromised to write IOmewhere on the ceiling before
Mary left (on the following Wednesday). We, of courae, told her nothing of
it, but remained on the qui ville every hour of the day. .
On Tuesday morniDg 1 carefully examined the ceiling where the writing
now is and found that there was nothing written then. My ,vife was in the
room all the morning, and Mary was in the kitchen busy. JUllt lwfure mid·
day dinner illy wife again. aamined caf'e,fully the whole of the ceiling, aft~r the
do'"had bun. laid,and is positive no writing was there then, and 1 may add
that she has good sight, and that the writing is easily soen from the floor.
the ceiling being about nine feet high : and so they all sat down to dinner-
six of them; Mary witll them, as is always the case whon we are rusticating
at Haalemere. During dinner Mary 81.U" tlu writin.'1 being dOlle, and after-
wards described to me the process. Tom first caught sight of the finished
writing. im1Mdiatelll oPtr th.e table, and called out: "Oh! ma, look !"
On looking, Rhe saw itand .....id: "That Willi not there five minutes a.go : '
"No," said Mary, "it has been just done."
Two visitors were present, and marvelled!
The two visitors had beon out sketching, and were talking about tho
• It should perhaps be explained. for the benefit of those readen who have not
previOWllr. seen accounts of the phenomena that occur in Mr. Theobald's hOU8e, that
..Mary '-his servant-·is the reputed medium. ...
Digitized by Google
86 Jrntrlanl of SOf!iet!l.fol' P8Ychkal RI'8tarch. [Oal, l88O.
lovely morning, and the change of thE! weather, for the night a.nd early
morning had been wet, and this was written al'f"OlHH of the converaation:-
" Many hours wet and dull
Bring a morning beautifull•
.. T. T. LYNCH."
You will find the lines (slightly altered to suit the circumatancea) in
CI Theophilus Trinal," p. 81, orig. ed. 1850.
Here you have coUectillt testimony up to the morning, when 1 left for
town, an1 my wife's solitary word of assurance since thAn up to the moment
()f writing. Tht' writing is in the well-known hand of J. W. E., who spells
all such words as the above with the double l, and the signature of Mr.
Lynch would be recognised by anyone familiar with his handwriting, as we
are.
Let. me conclude by adding that 1 am anxious to afford every facility to
your Society for investigation through members of your Council of whom we
may approve, and whose report you will accept; and if you can suggest any
Diode by which you can satisfy yourselves of the genuinene88 of theae
phenomena, and we ca.n aid you, we are ready to do so. As to joining our
lIeancu (few as they are), one of your number, Mr. Dawson Rogers, has
already done 10, and knows full well the delica.te conditions nec688ary to 80
sensitive a medium as the one we now rely upon for results at these times,
and also how impOllllible it would be for some, at least, of your number to
see then, or at any other time, such phenomena as 1 have frequently
recorded.
Yours faithfully,
MORBLL THEOBALD.
SeptAmber 12th, 1885.
We ha.ve recl'ived a. letter from Mr. T. P. Barkas relating also to
the discussion between Mr. Ha.ughton and Mr. Myers. It arrived too
late for insertion in the present number of the Journal, but we hope
to print it in the next.-ED.
MR. SINNETT'S RESIGNATION.
DEAR SIR,-1 do not wish to continue a member of the Society for
Psychical Research, and shall be obliged if you will duly record my resigna-
tion.
For many reasons 1 regret to withdraw from a society in the I{eneral
work of which 1 am so much interested, but it appears to me that in con-
nection with its recent attempt to investigate certain occurrences in India,
the leaders of the Society have hastily formed, on insufficient data, injurious
conclusions affecting persons I respect, and have gone out of their way to
promulgate these conclusions. I gratefully recognise that inso far as it was
thought these conclusions would be painful to myself much courtesy has
been shown to me personally during the proceedings that have taken place,
but at the same time the course pursued in reference to the persons whOle
reputation is assailed in the reports recently submitted to the Society, and
8ubstantially adopted by its authorities, is open, in my opinion, to un-
()ct.,l885.] Journal of &Cil't!l./or P8!lcMcal Re~aI·c". 81
«luivocal diaapproval. Under these circumstances it would be undesirable
for me to remain a member of the Society.
This ia not a convenient opportunity for me to go at length into a diacua-
lion of the grounds on which I conceive Mr. Hodgaon's report to be
miaJeading, and the methods of his inquiry unfair to the persons whose
conduct he was investigating, but at the same time, for obvious reasons, 1
should be glad if you would kindly procure the insertion of this letter in the
next number of the Society's Journal.
Yours very truly,
A. P. SINlfBr.r.
7, Ladbroke Gardens, W.
September 18th, 1885.
E. T. Bennett, Esq.
We may remind our readers that only comparatively small portions
of the Report on Phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society,
have already been laid before our Society at the General Meetings. The
complete report will be published in the next number of the P'I'OCeeaing'.
It will contain,-besides Mr. Hodgson's account of his investigations in
India, which deals with most of the phenomena mentioned in the First
Report of the Committee, as well as with those mentioned in TII~ Occult
World j-a careful discussion by him on the handwriting of the Koot
Hoomi letters, the authorship of which can, be thinks, be placed almost
beyond dispute by a consideration of the handwriting alone. In order
to complete the subject, notes will be added on phenomena connecW
with the Theoaophical Society that have occurred in Europe.
Digitized by Google
88 JO""lInl of Societ!lfor P8!lc/dcfll Rt'8enrl!h. [Oct.. ISS;'\.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
7'lu! follolrillfl additio". Alive been made hllee leut mOlitA.
F AHNBSTOCK (William Baker. M.D.) Statuvolilm; or. Artificial Som-
nanlbulilm ...•.•...•.•...••.••...•..........•••...•....•••.......•....0AU:a!JO. 1871
GLANVIL (Joseph) Saduciamua Triumphn.tus. Secolld Editioll.
London. 1682
(Imperfect) Several other small works bound up in the 8&l1le Yolume.§
BUNHEIlI (Professor) De Ill. Suggestion dans l'Etat Hypnotique:
reponsllll. M. Paul Janet ..•.......••..•......•..••••••.....•..••...••Paria. lSMt
.. Contribution lL l'Etude de l'Aphasie: de Ill. Cilcite
Paychique del Chosel ..•.•.•..•••.••.....•.•••..•••..•...•.•..••••...PaloU. 1885t
DElIARQUAY et Giraud-Teulon. Recherches sur l'hypnotiame
Parill. 1800
ESPINA.'1 (Dr. A.) Du Sommeil provoque che,.; leI HysliCriques
Bordeaux. 1884*'
GAReIN (Dr.) La Magnetiamfl expliqub par lui-memo ...•.....•.••..PllrU. 1855*'
JOURNAL DE MAON'-'TISlIE. 80US la direction de M. H. Durville
Pam. 1885
LIfBEAULT (Dr. A. A.) Du Sommeil et des etats analogues ...... Paria, 1866t
" "Ebauche de Psychologie .....................PIITU. 18'i3t
" "Etude aur Ie Zoomagnetmme ..........••Pari., 1883t
PERRONNET (Claude, M.D.) Le Magnetilme Animal...JAJIII-le-Baunier, 1884t
PRILlI'M (Dr. J. P.) Electrodynamiame Vital ........................Pan., 1855·
.. .. Cours Theorique et Pratique de Braidiame ou
Hypnotisme Nerveux .....................Palou, 1860*
Influenco Reciproque de Ill. Penase, de Ill. Sensation.
et des Mouvements Vegstatifa............Pari., 1862·
" "
PROC&'1 VERBAL fait pour Deliner une Fille P088t!d6e par Ie Malin
Esprit II. Louviers; Publie d'apres Ie MS. original par ARMAND
BENET .....................................................................Paria, 1883
RICHER (PAtTL) Etudes cliniques lur Ill. Grande HysliCrie .........Paria. 1885
RBVUE DE PSYCHOLOOIB EXPERIMENTALB, publi6 par T. PuEL.
No. 1-G ..................................................................Pari., 1874~
HARTMANN ~EDlTARD VON) Der Spiritismu! .........Ltipzig lind Berlill, 1885
RIEGER (K.) unl1 TIPPBL. Experimentelle untersuchungen fiber die
'Villenathatigkeit .....................................................•Jella. 1885
t Preaented by the Author.
+Presented by 1\1. Puel.
• Presented by Mr. F. W. H. Myl'l'L
§ Presented by Mn. Richard Kay.
Digitized by Google
