{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marta_m_nde_7760.html","mytitle":"Marta M NDE 7760","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marta M NDE 7760  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marta M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4005 Marta M NDE 7760  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As someone who grew up in a city, I didn't know nature.  I had been to the beach a maximum of five times in my life. When my friends and I went to the beach, neither of us knew that the very light rain that fell at night would make the sea level rise in the morning.  We just waited for the rain to stop and we went into the sea. I'm very short and took a maximum of 15 steps.  Out of nowhere, wave after wave started hitting me. I was so scared, that I tried to go back to shore.  I then realized I've been already pulled to the sea and the shore was really distant from me.  Then those waves started coming back. In seconds, 2 meters of water or more was above me. I remember being very calm.  All of the sudden and I looked up. I saw light.  Now, I don't know if it was the spiritual plane or the sun. I was a smoker and was already short of breath and was trying to hold it. 

I was still being pulled deeper and deeper into the ocean but this alien calm came over me. I wasn't suffering or suffocating. My 'guardian angel' was at my right. I knew this but couldn't see him.  He introduced himself to me earlier. He talked to me telepathically and I could hear him with no other sound. He said I've done much good in my life and I could go.  Because of that reason and that I wouldn't suffer, they'd put me to 'sleep' before I felt anything. He also said I accomplished my mission but that my life force was diminishing.  If I stayed, things would be an effort and become very hard. 

My mother is a past life enemy and we are reconciling.  My life passed in front of me and I saw that she hadn't forgiven me yet, so I decided to stay and try. He actually insisted, 'Are you sure?' seeming very doubtful. I decided that's the only time I'd try again. I was already exhausted and he left. When he left, the sound came back and I felt the water and everything, but still I was calm. One of my friends, who was tall, found me and grabbed me my hand.  She told me later that she just dove her hand in the water blindly and that it was a miracle she found me at her first attempt. There was one girl still on the shore who didn't dive with us.  She said it's impossible that I was alive because she was sure I was under water for ten minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  december 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Drowning.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I almost drowned

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was as if I almost knew everything. I had a feeling of the future. I saw my whole life in a matter of seconds but weirdly enough, I could see all the important parts, although there was no time for it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At being in the bottom of the ocean, after knowing I was about to drown there or very soon.  Then the calm came.  I think I was inside a bubble, although invisible and time stood still there. I wasn't breathing so I wonder what universal bend they did there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I feel our conversation lasted half an hour.  The girl on the shore told me I was under water for more than 10 minutes. I never felt lack of air and didn't suffer at all.  So in a way, I'm sure there was time manipulation of some kind. I think in the bubble, time stopped and I 'remembered' in the spiritual plane time doesn't exist either.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Maybe my vision was better, I'm not really sure but thinking about it I remember I have sensitive eyes and could never open them in seawater. I did there, completely normal like I was out of water. I can't even open my eyes really in a pool but in a beach, it was always impossible, not that day.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was perfect, but I know inside me I wasn't listening with my ears. Also, I had many telepathic happenings before, especially when reading thoughts of someone who means to harm me or wish me ill.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My aunt who was the mother I never had, she came to me two times after she passed. My cat (I rescue many adult, elderly animals) reincarnated and is here now. She came in spirit. Another passed Cat came in spirit as well, made noises and made herself noticed. I've seen ghosts two times.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I looked up and saw a bright light but it could have been the sun.  On the other hand, before entering and leaving the beach I remember it being a cloudy, gray day.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I can't be sure, but intuitively, I was sure I was put in an earth-time frozen bubble and maybe even my physical body.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very calm, happy, feeling warm and protected. I feel like I don't have many friends in this life but I have many in the other side, if it is of any importance, I know the answer for that, it's because I've committed suicide. My real family, and closely linked people, is not incarnated right now. Suicide leads to a very harsh and lonely next life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt there were many looking after me, even though most of the spirits I'm close to didn't reincarnate, they are all there right now. I feel we are going back to Source when we learn it all, that there's life out there and I'm might not be from here.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Referenced in Description

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I knew my life would get harsher and very painful but I chose to stay to try a bit more with my mom, it didn't work and I'm ready to go. Next time I won't ask to stay, it's not up to me if someone doesn't want to forgive me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   By the time I was a Spiritualist (Allan Kardec, Chico Xavier) and went from 'believing' to really knowing reincarnation is real from personal proofs.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am detached from religion and trusting my inner guidance more and more, because of that, I found many answers. I stopped putting my power away and started to become confident I have some wisdom and should trust it more than others. I don't have a guru, but Jesus Christ' words (not the Bible and not what men said about him) of loving others and forgiving, I think it's all the religion the world needs. For that, I always consult Him.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Still Spiritualist and had many more glimplses, experiences.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Well the only thing is that I always put myself down, thought I never did enough and he talked to me like I was a very good person, that I've done much good and I accomplished my mission. When he said that I thought I never done nothing big and was very surprise, in this sense he blew my mind cause I believed exactly the opposite, that I wasn't good enough, didn't help enough people and animals, didn't do good enough. Nowadays I'm very aware that whatever I see or even hear about a being needing help I will go out of my way to help and that's enough. It kind of taught me how to be a good person, I'm not a good person but I act like one and I know this is what is needed to be done to clear my karma, I've always known since 3.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think I took being a good person to another level as much as I started to treat myself better, I always suffered of low self-esteem, believing all my mother said I was to be true, after the near death experience, I became very good to me, too, not only others.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My Guardian Angel, a father many lives before, came to me offering for a peaceful passing because 'I deserved it' for all the good I did.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I've never saw but when I talk  to Jesus Christ I can feel strongly He is right there, listening, I always receive a response by a way of someone actually responding by accident (saying a very hard to miss coincidence), a happening right in front of me, an image or video... And when visiting a Spiritism center the spirit channeled by the medium replied one of the most emotional praying/talking I had with Jesus 3 years ago, I broke down because it was the first time I was too sure He's been listening. I've been talking to Him since 4 or before.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     A knowing, more than a feeling that I existed and lived lives again and again

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I knew him and was aware many await my return and look after me

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We're here to evolve, not careers, popularity, fame, knowledge but specifically the heart, the love. Earth is very hard and the stage this primitive planet is in the most important thing to evolve is compassion. In a peaceful, more evolved civilization we can focus on knowledge and the rest. We can see this as very few people act selfless, cause that's the test. Earth is a test and a school.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I had awareness I lived before, that I'm actually very old, ancient and I had conscience if I chose to go and die it would continue, actually in a happier place.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     In my case it was personal. I've faced much loneliness, bullying even by 2 of 3 members of my family, meaning I was bullied since birth all day. At school in my country. By neighbors, when I moved to Japan the bullying happened again and it was worse, on work enviroments. Veganism made it much, much better cause I don't feel on fear and don't have the karma of being responsible for their suffering, but I have depression since I can remember, this all made the challenges much worse.   My answers came when I saw that I commited suicide in a previous life. That's the result, all this suffering. If one stick with their lives till the end they actually face less suffering. Taking lives is against the laws of the Universe. We're not punished but as a law we automatically face the consequence. The Bible isn't right, there is no judgment but the one we give ourselves.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We are here to develope love, compassion, to act to help others, no matter if they are strangers or what types of life forms.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I didn't wait anymore to hear or see some being in need of help, I volunteered and as I started to look for where to help, more beings in need also found me. I constantly and harshly evaluate myself morally and always look to improve; when I change something I look for the next change for the better: I became vegan, started to treat my body better, started to rescue animals in my home, stopped smoking and drinking.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Slowly, I started to cut from my life, all the people who asked too much of me and gave me nothing back. I realized my friends were not there for me and it's ok, for me, when I'm volunteering, when it's charity. But in my personal life, I was drowning with no one to listen, show support; but my phone would ring at 3 AM so they could tell me their problems. After this happening, I realized family, relatives and my 'friends, at the time, didn't respect me, I was just used or bullied. I just came back from the beach tired of 23 years of this and changed drastically, because I respected me more. I guess I always thought I was wrong, that I had to pay and what my Guardian told me, just released me from my bondage and I actually started doing even more good: to people, animals, and causes that really needed me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started to have glimpses of others' lives more frequently, my intuition sky rocketed, had some visions, I've always been an empath but it sky rocketed, I can read people now, I know if they are lying, if they are good or not by looking at them and been finding mythical answers for my questions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was a blessing to know how much I'm loved; I was incredibly lonely for 23 years. Never really 'clicking' with anybody, people constantly depended on me, asked too much of me, misunderstood me a lot and I always felt my family and relatives are totally strangers.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me more than 5 years, I was believed and I don't think they changed. People who know me, know I had too many 'paranormal' experiences, being intuitive and a medium, and I don't get along with people who are not open- minded and spiritual; so I've been close to people like that. They might know things by themselves so my experiences are believable to them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I never gave it any thought; all I knew was the image that the movie Ghost gave us.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I always trusted my gut and because of that my intuition always increased, so much so, that I escaped a shooting, a robbery, a gang attack just by the fact I just know not to be in some places. I always had one foot in the other dimension and it always seemed more attractive than here. The experience was as real as remembering what breakfast I had this morning, it was just a fact, you know when you just know it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Well I have awareness of other things, I'm not criticizing, and in fact, you could ignore it completely if there was not another mention of it, but I wish I could see any mention about life in other planets. I remember well and these people are called star seeds, but we are very few, and because of that, not worth a mention here. It's up to you. Smiles.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marta_m_nde_7760.html