{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marta_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Marta L NDE 6641","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marta L NDE 6641  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marta L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3295 Marta L NDE 6641  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					All of a sudden I got an allergic reaction that made me behave like a monster. My kids rushed me to the nearest hospital and I jumped out of the car and ran into the emergency room.  A nurse told me to get on a gurney and told another nurse to get a vein prepped for the doctor. The gurney was too high for me to simply lie down on it.  As my son-in-law was getting something on which I could stand, I felt a blasting freeze starting to surround me, beginning at my feet working its way up my body. Somehow, I felt certain that when it covered my whole head, I would leave. When it did, I said goodbye to my son-in-law and fainted.

I had the most beautiful fun jumping around in the clouds. Back then, I was so overweight that when I would jump onto a cloud, I would fall right through it and land on the one below. While this was happening, I was screaming like a kid in an amusement park!

I felt so much joy, it's difficult to explain! Then all of a sudden, I felt as if a giant vacuum cleaner was sucking me down from the clouds. I fell a very long way and crash-landed.

Before I opened my eyes, I thought, 'If this is dying, dying is marvelous!' The happiness I felt in my chest was so great that I felt as though I were drunk with joy. And very silly, too!

When I opened my eyes, I was surrounded by doctors and nurses who said they hadn't been able to use my vein because my system had collapsed. I saw my son-in-law standing behind the doctors and he was yellow, so I said, 'Gaby, what happened?' And he said, 'You scared the s*** out of me!' and I started making fun of him. Then the nurse next to me told me I had had a bowel movement and passed urine. Then I started making fun of myself! The nurse told me that I had given her the worst experience of her career.

By now, the allergic reaction was gone, and I had returned to a normal state, but pale without any medication. My son-in-law told me about how he had seen my transformations happening right before his eyes.

I would have loved to have stayed up there, because my husband had died the year before, and I wanted to be with him again. At that time, I had been feeling that without him my life was worthless. But back I came, anyway.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  year 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction,  anaphylactic shock.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My consciousness was flying or jumping through the clouds.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not until I landed.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Just prior to the experience, the coldness that was surrounding me felt, again, like a blast freezer. It moved all around me, starting at my feet and traveling upwards.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All I heard was myself shouting every time I jumped from one cloud to another.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A happiness that you have to feel to believe. I continued to feel that way for several days, until it gradually went away.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Raised in a Baptist school

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not afraid of death. My mission on earth is to serve the underprivileged.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Our soul is energy which can not be made or destroyed, after my experience I lost the fear of death like many other

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The love I felt in my heart is unexplainable

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I needed someone to explain my experience to me. After researching the subject, I got together with a friend of mine who was in the seminary to become a priest. After I explained everything, he asked me if anyone had called me by my name. The answer was no. Then I asked him why didn't I stay, because I had wanted to die. He answered that I still had a mission on earth to complete. Since then, and by coincidence, I've served the homeless in a soup kitchen, and I couldn't be any happier.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told everyone near me. They knew I would not make up this story, and they were amazed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has been twelve years, and I still remember it as if it were yesterday.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing like this had ever happened to me, and nothing like this has ever happened since. It was real!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marta_l_nde.html