{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marney_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Marney N NDE 7442","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marney N NDE 7442  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marney N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3791 Marney N NDE 7442  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I floated above in the room, I could see everything that was going on, but not afraid or concerned with it. I saw them cut my clothes off after 'I was gone.' I validated this later. It was a light feeling, like the world was lifted off my shoulders and I could float now, I felt like I was safe, I was comfortably curled up, in a pair of giant hands that held me. This comfort, this ultimate light was everywhere. I knew I never wanted to leave that place: this is where I belonged. Then I felt like I fell from a tall building and slammed back into my body. I remember my family there and very angry, my demeanor was elation (which I am sure confused them). Then as the feeling began to fade, the heaviness of being human began to return and I cried.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)     Overdose

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The scene in the hospital room. I was there for that, as I described above.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember everything, except at the end, the return to this place happened fast.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound. There was communication in your head, something relayed to you into your thoughts but you knew they weren't your thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wasn't worried about my human body at all, no anxiety just safety.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Not interested at that time, I was enjoying the safety I felt.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Yes, they come to me all the time. At first I was freaking out when it happened, it was like I fast-forwarded through the life I hadn't lived yet. It started out when I saw a preview for a movie coming to the theater and I knew specifics of the plot I couldn't possibly have known (like the whole ending). I remember first thinking ‘why is this just coming to the theater when I already saw it?’ Then as it kept happening, I realized I am moving through what I have seen. I have never told anyone who's going to believe me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I had no choice; I certainly didn't want to leave.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   born catholic, knew about God, but never really 'knew God'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It didn't happen all of a sudden. It was a series of events and one day I put my hand on my bible and said 'I am ready, show me the way' and He allowed me to see, I was around 40 years old.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     always hoped there was a God but never really believed it

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a better person.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I heard comfort in my thoughts.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     he is the light, the safety, and the comfort

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     wish I did, maybe if I stayed longer. That's 'the' question isn't it.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     well, I went somewhere

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I came to realize we (as well as I did before) have a veil and we live seeing through this veil, then the veil is lifted and I can see 'him' everywhere. There is no such thing as a coincidence

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     The complexity of what it means to love seemed much more simple there.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I know God exists, I see him every day in everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I feel whole.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Cannot describe in words, I can try to describe the safety and comfort. There is nothing worldly to compare.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   afterward, I fell into a terrible deep depression. Maybe because I couldn't make sense of it and I wanted to talk about it and no one wanted to listen. And it took me about 10 years to reconcile the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am an empath, I can't wear a wrist watch, I have a whole drawer full, they stop, can't just replace the battery, jeweler said he ‘has no idea what's wrong with it'.  Light bulbs burn out quickly in areas that I usually sit around the house.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To know there is much more to all of this.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    If I mention it, the subject matter is changed, people are not interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was freaking out!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have reconciled it and am now closer to the Lord.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I have Deja vu all the time and that is a direct result of that experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's real, it really happened, I want someone to believe me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marney_n_nde.html