{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marlene_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Marlene S NDE 6395","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marlene S NDE 6395  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			                				  					Marlene S NDE  	  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            3130 Marlene S NDE 6395  		                		              		            			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I could see myself on the operating table during heart surgery.  It was as though I was hovering in a corner looking down upon myself and all the equipment attached.

Later, I was told that the team told my family in the operating room waiting room that the prognosis was not good and that if they could not restart my heart in the next 30 minutes, they would call a code.  I then remember waking in recovery and feeling much pressure then total darkness.  I was placed on a defibrillator.  

There was a sensation of more pressure and then a spiraling down into total blackness.  I then saw a bright light and thought my mother was there telling me it wasn't time and I wanted to go to her so badly.  She had been dead for 30 years.  

When I was recovering, finally, I felt as though I had been robbed of dying.  I was despondent and confused.  My personality had changed considerably and I felt I had been replaced by someone else.  I still feel that I lost my soul.  Does that make any sense?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 6, 1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a heart attack and blockage of coronary arteries. At the time, I was female, 42 years old and weighed 105 lbs.  Not a candidate for such an event.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See narrative above  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt I was not the same person, that my soul had been stolen

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Three days after surgery, when I was finally weaned off the respirator

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   I had no recollection of time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clear and unhindered

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was not affected

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     At first it was a dark spiral and then a tunnel of light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A brightness so intense and peaceful

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total detachment

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I quit attending church about 10 years ago.  I have now returned to my Church in the past several months.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Experienced many doubts and have felt disconnected, unfeeling about my existance.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Why did I experience a spiriling downward into darkness before seeing the tunnel of bright light?

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     That experience has forever changed my life and the way that I have continued to live.  It is most disturbing and makes me question my way of life and beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   As I mentioned, my mother was there but told me to return

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I changed jobs and followed a different path.  I have felt lost and not myself but have managed a successful life in spite of my personal feelings.  However, I still feel I am not the same person who they wheeled into that operating room in March 6, 1980.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I do not interact with anyone else these days.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No one understood what I was trying to convey.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   That experience has forever, changed my life and the way that I have continued to live.  It is most disturbing and makes me question my way of life and beliefs.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My perception of many things has been affected and my relationship with others has been altered.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The spiraling into darkness reminds me of entering Hell.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is always there, I never quit thinking about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Why did I experience a spiraling downward into darkness before seeing the tunnel of bright light?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None, you have been very thorough and I appreciate any feed-back you may be able to give me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marlene_s_nde.html