{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marnie_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Marnie A NDE 4849","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marnie A NDE 4849  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marnie A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2459 Marnie A NDE 4849  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I awoke in a white room. Not really a white room, but that's my best explanation. The color was a blinding, bright white room with no edges. To this day, I can see it as if it happened yesterday. Although it seemed blindingly bright, there were no lights. No sound at all, just quiet. No smells either. The best way to describe it is as if you're in a 'clean room'. Not eerie at all, just silence. It seemed the room had no beginning or end.

There was an old white man standing before me, not speaking. He had a receded hairline and was cleanly shaven. He was of average height and weight. He wore white as well. It looked like a tunic or a long-sleeved shirt that went down to his ankles. Even though I was five years at the time and didn't know who this man was, I felt completely at peace and not threatened or scared one bit. I did feel a bit of confusion because I wondered how I got there. I also did not remember the accident at that time. It seemed that event was far away like it happened so long ago. I had forgotten the event. I did feel like this was a non-threatening event and that I was where I needed to be. I had a feeling as if I was not meant to be there even though no words were said or his body language didn't imply that I shouldn't be there. It was almost as if it was just understood. At that moment, I felt like I was going back. That place was disappearing which I can't explain, it was just disappearing. At that point, I started to hear a man's voice. I started to hear the sirens. The sirens got louder and realized I was in an ambulance and a man was sitting next to me telling me that 'Everything is okay. You'll be okay.' I passed out again and wasn't conscious until much later.

When I woke up in the hospital, I couldn't make what happened to me. I thought it was just some freaky dream and put just filed that memory away.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   It was monsoon season in Hawaii and it's very hard to see the cars due to the rain downpour. We had a green light to go, but a vehicle ran the red light and we collided. At this time, seatbelts were not standard in vehicles or not required to use.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience, I was at the highest level of consciousness and alertness. It was clear as day. No moment of 'Is that? What's that?' at all. I knew what I saw, what I heard, and what I felt. There was no denying any of it. Maybe because of the fact that I was a child and no 'real-life experiences' to corrupt what I went through and try to 'make sense' of what I was experiencing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt that the bright white was too much for my eyes. That's pretty much it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound. I wasn't deaf or hard of hearing, but there was absolutely no sound at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not know the man I saw. It was an older gentleman about sixty-plus. He did not show any expressions whatsoever. He did not speak or move. But I did feel at peace and that I was not meant to be there and I had this feeling as though I had important things to do.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Well I didn't see a light. It was just ultra-bright like light. No shadows whatsoever. No colors at all other than the white man with his receded, gray, short hair.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt extremely curious and I felt at peace. I just felt that there was no fear or happiness, but just a sense of peace. Like I was enlightened.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had a few other NDE's. During these experiences, I felt as if there was a guardian angel whispering in my ear. Not literally, but felt that there was someone watching over me. In my teen years, I was in the Philippines and their bathrooms were not modern. The floor is flooded with water when you shower and then it just runs down the drain. Well their electrical devices are sub-par at best. Well I showered in the morning and then I dressed. I was standing in about two inches of water. I was about to flip the lights off and was literally reaching for the switch when I had this urge to put on my flip-flops. Usually I put them on when I'm about to walk into the hallway. That's my ritual. Well I had this urge to put my flip-flops on and I did. I went to flip the switch to turn the lights out and didn't realize the flipper fell off and I touched the exposed wires. I shocked the hell out of my hand, but was fine. Shaken, but was fine. I was standing in two inches of water. I feel that if I had not put them on, I would have been electrocuted.  In the Philippines, there's no clinic or hospital in close proximity. You would have to go into the city. At that time, I knew someone was watching over me. There was no other way for me to explain breaking my ritual just this one time. (Did I mentioned I'm a little obsessive compulsive?) You don't just change on the fly.  Now I have some form of psychic ability because I would dream of things to come somewhat regularly. Mostly in my youth, but haven't had those 'dreams' anymore. I don't know why. I do get vibes of people and know them before I would 'know them' formally. I have seen a couple of ghosts in my lifetime, but one thing that is strange for others to fathom is I seem to know when there's a cemetery close by. I feel it. I feel as if they're trying to get my attention, but I don't see them. I would say that I think we're about to pass a cemetery. Soon enough, we pass it. I don't like cemeteries. I don't like to go to them because I would get these pains on my legs as if they're grabbing at me. I can't communicate with them in any way. I sometimes get flashes of images when I'm in a place with high psychic energy. I sound foolish and this IS definitely something I would not usually tell people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well it was meaningful and significant to me because it was extraordinary.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not until much later. I was afraid that they would call me a loon. I was pleasantly surprised they didn't dismiss it at all. They believed me wholeheartedly. I didn't influence anyone to my knowledge.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was just something that happened. I was a kid. It knew it wasn't a dream, but didn't feel like I had to tell people because I thought that was just normal. It was real like going into the office to do work.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely real. I can tell the difference between a dream and reality. That experience was real. I just knew it. I felt completely aware of my surroundings.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe a forum for these people that experienced this phenomenon, so we can communicate. I know it's very confusing and you want answers and you want to ask a ton of questions, so I think a forum would be great.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marnie_a_nde.html