{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marney_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Marney M NDE 3274","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marney M NDE 3274  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marney M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1158  Marney M NDE  3274  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was speeding through a black tunnel, but I was traveling through the tunnel horizontally and not vertically like I always thought (going up to heaven, that sort of thing). The tunnel was also in sections. Not anything that I could see, but felt. It was like there was a thin layer of something, and every time I 'broke' through this, I could feel it. The vibrations in my body increased and it felt like I was turbo-charged and went faster and faster through every section.

Then I heard this sound, it was far off but at the same time, it was inside my head. It sounded like insects buzzing, and it was very annoying and irritating. Then everything stopped. The tunnel, the vibrations, the noise.

I found myself standing (I still had a body, but it was more of an awareness, not substance) in my own piece of blackness. It was nothing and yet everything to me. There was no noise, worries or fear. I was amazed and fascinated by how black the darkness was, yet it felt like a big security blanket. I was comfortable in my space and made up my mind to spend eternity there.

That's when I heard this voice. It came from behind me and just over my head. It was gentle, rich, and familiar, yet to this day, I don't know who he was. When he 'spoke' he communicated not just (telepathic) words but also emotions and knowledge. His words, really, meant nothing, but they were powerful.

He said, 'Do you see the light?' and without even thinking I instinctively looked up. There before me was a white pure light. It was small, about the size of a dime, yet I could not judge how far away it was. It could have been miles or I could have reached out and touched it (if one could touch light). At this time I was no longer aware of having a body, I just 'was'.

I had time to see the light, to comprehend the situation, but at the same time, the 'instant' I saw the light everything was over. Time and space is simply something that human's experience. I'm still not sure I got banished when I became aware of the light, the light became aware of me, or the light became aware that I was aware of it. I definitely felt that the light had a (or was a) consciousness.

That was the end of that, but a few weeks after I got out of the hospital, I was bound and determined to go back to 'my place'. I bought all the necessary supplies, and that was when I had my first OBE (I don't know what else to call it).

I was laying down but I don't remember falling asleep. I experienced the vibrations and insect sounds again, but not the tunnel. Then I heard that same voice. Not words, but emotions. What it conveyed was that it would be one of the worst decisions I could make for it's not meant to be, it's not part of the plan, it's not supposed to happen. It didn't feel like he was saying don't do it, for the choice was mine. Just caution and sadness felt if I did follow through.

That was twenty-four years ago but it might as well have been ten minutes ago.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 1983

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Took six bottles of sleeping pills. Physically my heart was racing close to 200 bpm and my temperature dropped dramatically while in the emergency room.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was in the darkness and was aware that the darkness represented what I wanted/needed in life. No worries, fears, sadness. Just comfort, peace and protection.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Just warping through the tunnel. Like I was going through dimensions how people drive past neighborhood blocks.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    All I could see was blackness, except for the light.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hearing was outside and yet inside my head at the same time (buzzing sounds). The man's voice was rich and soothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Traveling horizontally not vertically. Like warping through dimensions and every dimension you felt going through it and you went faster and faster. Maybe five to six times.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     Never saw anyone, just a male voice communicated with me. The voice came from behind me and maybe a foot above my head. The voice sounded very familiar like he was someone close to me at one time, but I just don't know who.

I felt gentle prodding to look for the light ('Do you see the light?') because I was content to stay where I was for eternity.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very briefly and yet long enough to get an understanding. It was pure white light, yet you could look straight at it. It felt like it had a consciousness, that it was a being. I wonder if I looked the same to it, but smaller and not so bright and pure.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Annoyance at sound in tunnel.

Comfort, amazement and peace in the darkness.

Almost child-like and obedient when the voice spoke.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   'Believed something bigger was out there, but not the classical 'I am God, I will smite you God.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I just know now that there is a spiritual side. Organized religion is great for people who need that, but for me it's spiritual and not religious.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I just know now that there is a spiritual side. Organized religion is great for people who need that, but for me it's spiritual and not religious.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Purpose in the sense that I belong on this earth and to not alter with that. What purpose I have I do not know.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's hard to express experiences/feelings that are not commonly felt in this dimension or plane.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just how thoughts are able to convey emotions. Not just one, but several. Compassion, caring, pity, sorrow.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I know it wasn't a dream as I made a deliberate attempt to die. I had no beliefs, expectations or cared what would happen or become of me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It was so real that throughout my life when I felt down I just thought back to this experience. It's been a great motivator to not travel down that road again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Only happens during the day if I should happen to doze off on the couch or such. I can feel the vibrations start and the sense of traveling, along with the buzzing. For years, I fought it but now I just relax and let myself go. This happened quite frequently after the event, but as time passes, it gets rarer and rarer. I do enjoy them when they do happen.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Nope. Pretty much covered it. Not very exciting I know, but I haven't met anyone else who had a similar experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Some of the questions where you had buttons, it would've been nice to have more options as somewhere difficult to answer with just the choices given. Or at least a box with each choice to clarify.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marney_m_nde.html