{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marnie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Marnie M NDE 3402","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marnie M NDE 3402  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marnie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1343 Marnie M NDE 3402  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on the EC Row Highway outside of Windsor, Ontario, and  it was raining and I was coming home from work at night. I was heading Eastbound and heading to the top of a hill on the highway when a car going westbound entered the highway going the wrong way hit me head on at the top of the hill. The cars headlights where in view for only seconds, and hit my car straight on. My car started spinning only for me to hit two more cars behind me. It was witnessed that my head went through the front windshield, and then the side window, on the second hit. From the first hit the car crushed directly into me, crushing me into the steering wheel and the engine to be lodged into me lap. After the third hit, the car was sent down the side of the hill, taking me off the highway on to the side, going down the hill. To land in a ditch full of water, and the car sinking into the water. A witness, crashed the cars back window, crawled into the car and pulled me out of the car, otherwise I would have drowned, and I was not awake, when I was pulled out of the car.

While the accident was happening, I can remember feeling no pain. I was happy and looking forward in dying and going on. There was a light, and I was delighted to head towards the light, and looking forward to the light in getting closer. I remember saying to the light. I really wanted to join it. A man's voice came to me and told me I couldn't go with them. I was really upset, and wanted to know why, because I was so ready to go. The voice told me that I had to go back, that it had special plans for me, that where very important, and that my job wasn't done yet. I remember arguing, and saying again, that I wanted to go with him. But told I had special things to do on earth, and I had to go back. I accepted the answer, and understood that they were telling me that there was a special plan. Then I woke up outside the car on the ground. Only to be completely unharmed, only with a few pieces of glass in my skin..

For years, little pieces of glass would come out of my skin. The driver that hit me I did meet that night. It was a middle aged man, who happened to be the uncle of one of the police men. I spoke to him that evening he asked me if I was OK. He was drunk. The policeman asked him not to speak. The man was never charged. My car did not injure anyone else.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  fall of 1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death car accident  On the highway driving 80 mph, I was hit by a car on the highway.  The car was going the wrong way at the top of the hill, that car was exceeding 80 mph

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At all times

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A man, but I could feel others around me. Many where listening. The man seemed to look a little more than middle aged

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     everything was beautiful, eventhough I could not make out my surroundings

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       complete contentment, and understanding

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   roman catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I live my life less cautiously. I am not afraid of death at all

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I live my life less cautiously. I am not afraid of death at all

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Purpose of my being, why we are on earth, and that we have a special purpose

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes for sure, I am very protective in who I meet. Being I am very intuitive. But understand that I am meeting these people for a purpose.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see spirits, they visit me, and talk to me. I can levitate, and change my surroundings. I can also control what spirits come to me, and tell people of their past and future existence. I have also saved one life that I am aware of. I also am extremely intuitive with people. Others have witnessed spirits around me

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was shocked I was so ready and content to go at such a young age.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some believe, some don't. Some have seen the levitation and movements of objects. And some have acted on my comments, only to save others. Some spirits just want to say hi, and I tell them the descriptions of the spirits, their names and relationship to that person. I do not practice this openly too often.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Went on with my life normally

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was too young to know all the things I experienced. I really at that time didn't know about afterlife experiences

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marnie_m_nde.html