{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark S NDE 6711\/4922","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark S NDE 6711/4922  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2523 Mark S NDE 6711/4922  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6711  					</p>  					On a 2 lane, windy, country style roadway bordering the south side of the Bethpage State Golf Course (Quaker Meeting House Road) I was the front seat passenger in a 2003 Mercedes-Benz CL55 AMG. Don was driving and Wayne was sitting in the middle of the back seat hunched forward to speak to Don.  Don just got off the phone in tears.  As we turned a sharp uphill right hand bend Don leaned on the throttle initiating an automatic downshift into 516ftlbs of torque that lunged the vehicle into the oncoming lane.  I became wide awake (I was sleeping a minute beforehand).  Don recovered control before we reached the trees and while starting to turn back into our eastbound lane, a stretch limousine merged Westbound from the Golf Course exit road landing right in front of us.  Both drivers braced on the accelerator pedals as neither nosed down.  The CL55 downshifted once again this time lunging through the front end of the limousine.  Don was braced with arms outward in anticipation of the airbag while I was able to predict the airbags will not timely deploy with that much acceleration applied and raised my left arm and leg to absorb impact energy.  My left leg snapped in tension against the center console.  Then Wayne nicked my left shoulder with his right shoulder in flight to the dashboard's center where he fractured his skull and died with brain damage 6 hours later.  Then the inside of my left knee wedged into the dashboard recompressing my first left femur break and breaking again a few inches forward of the 1st break (in compression this time).  The outside of my right knee sustained lacerations against the dashboard too (but no more femur breaks).  Then my left forearm snapped against the dash and my head came down upon my left hand against the dashboard.  That impact was just strong enough to expunge my spirit but not enough for any head injuries (just a bruised left hand for months from nearly being smashed).  

The veil felt so thin. I was on my feet, with no pain, as if just thrown forward. I landed like a child against the chest of his Father (with my head barely reaching the height of his chest).  This spirit was broad, tall, long hair and had a love I have never and will never feel in this world.  My fists landed first clinched in front of my head and I knew I had to return to a body in a vehicle that will soon be on fire. However, I wanted to stay so I pushed off saying, 'I'm not F'n done yet'.  My mind relayed the reasoning and commitment, as if a third party, between my spirit and the other (without a word but telepathically).  And with my push off, I felt that rubber band snap back into my body as if bouncing off the inside of my spine and traveling a lot further back than I did forward.  The spirit was standing in front of a light source so all I saw was his outline.  

Once back inside my body, my first thought was to pull back for the coming delayed airbag deployment and just as my muscles tensed, the airbags deployed.  The driver's airbag imposed a documented 10x14cm hemorrhage to his occipital scalp while my airbag picked my entire body up by my face and threw me backwards slamming the back of my head against the moon roof for a laceration requiring 10-staples to my occipital scalp.  We were helped out of that burning vehicle and, as I sat on the side of the road knowing everyone else was/will die, I knew that was just the beginning and there will be no welcoming back committee.  The past 7 years have been the most challenging of my life.  I chose not to file claim against the driver's estate that had a wife and child left with a 1 million dollar insurance policy and about 400 thousand dollars in equity (700 thousand dollars' worth of injuries).  I blamed myself, convincing myself I must have inadvertently slipped out of the seatbelt while raising my left limbs.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/11/2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a tragic head-on automobile collision between a Mercedes-Benz CL55 AMG and a stretch limousine.  All 3 others involved died within 6 hours.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Two hours of thought was compressed in less than 2 seconds (for example). The experience/conversation felt longer than the moment before airbag deployment (the two sensors in the front bumper were destroyed before sensing any deceleration so the third sensor behind the firewall had to be the one to trigger deployment).  I watched the metal hoods crumple even before taking flight so it's hard to tell when we took flight versus when metal finally stopped crumpling enough for that firewall sensor triggered airbag deployment.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.  The mind blossoms when given less than 2 seconds to prepare for survival; when realizing you're in the worst possible position as a front seat passenger but nobody else is positioned to survive it.  That level of consciousness was maintained.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Thought processing was much faster as well as my ability to 'checkmark' my bodily damage and know what limbs were left to break in an effort to determine if I'm going to absorb enough energy before dying, to prevent death.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was more sensitive but the only memory of hearing anything was the sound of my forearm bones snapping.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I interpret the space in which I was blocked by a spirit as being in the tunnel that I had to push back from before.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Behind the spirit that blocked my passage was light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was annoyed that I had to be the one to survive as a front seat passenger facing the greatest challenge. And I felt unmatched love once out of my body with anger at my failure to survive and even more anger at my commitment to return (like locking yourself up in servitude).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The driver and myself (friends since 2nd grade) exceeded in businesses involving wireless and property development projects (separately) at early ages.  I knew one of us had to live to do something meaningful with that experience & knowledge.  Unfortunately the commitment was divided into what Don learned and what I learned which meant carrying the burden of an additional undertaking I had no intention of addressing.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Coptic Orthodox - oldest form of Christianity

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     After a freshly released Mormon Bishop schemed $18,800 from me that was accounted for to fulfill a civil court order (v. a 30-day jail sentence), and my former Coptic Orthodox priest jumped to ask "was that the Devil you met with", I no longer believe in organized religion by human beings.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   non-denominational (no longer attend Church services after a very disturbing experience in Mormon church w/recent Bishop and fraud/theft of funds)

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew there was a spirit world.  I did not realize just how thin the veil was.  I also thought more important/significant spiritual 'meetings' occurred with more important people with a lot higher status.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   The spirit I met, touched, felt the presence of and saw the outline of could have very well and most likely was Jesus.  However I'm still trying to convince myself that it was someone serving under Jesus as who am I to deserve his meeting of and then to p

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     The spirit felt like I was meeting my Father, again.  Nothing like my biological father.  Even the words I said was as if I was continuing a conversation I wasn't even aware of before about my 'visit' on earth.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I am aware of just how thin the veil really is.  And how interactive the spirit world is with this world.  I've also become aware of dark forces as well as the light forces that act in and upon this world.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The spirit I met was bigger than any human I've ever seen on earth and had such a mighty presence (not God himself but certainly a spirit of high ranking).  And I tried to convince myself otherwise as that comes with greater responsibility/fear but I just can't deny any part of the experience.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Unfortunately the experience lead me to develop an integrated security infrastructure network/approach that must be lead by the private sector, even invest in a company to introduce it thru public schools that this company had surveillance infrastructure in (but was faced with government fraud/embezzlement to a facility director's nephew's company that practically sunk it).  That was Don (the driver's) side of input/experience.  My side of it is a sun/earth based solar power generation technology I've since came up with but hold only inside my head (my life's collateral not to be manipulated/stolen by anybody else).

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     A general awareness of my purpose with the need to realize the details/specifics later in pieces.  It is an awareness I wouldn't wish on anybody as it strips you of the ability to be too selfish and face a picture/challenge you believe someone in a bigger

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Once my spirit ejected out of my body it was still in a body form able to stand and touch another spirit without physical pain.  For months I tried to convince myself it was a reaction of my brain hitting the inside of my skull but I've hit my head harder

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That spiritual love is far greater than earthly love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I learned that humans are worse than animals.  I.e.:  Chickens surround their injured and peck them to death to protect their food supply.  Humans do the same, except they perceive injury solely by finances, convince themselves you're weak, and then peck away relentlessly and simultaneously with others.  The forces of karma have become undeniably profound against each 'pecker'.  I also believe humans are not evolved enough to manage religion and manipulate it for power to abuse others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My Mother is my only family relationship remaining (of a brother, sister, father, uncle, 3-cousins I was in touch with).  All my close friends died in a 4-year window.  I am still in contact with a few grade school friends by phone (3 or so).  For the most part, I'm fully isolated.  This is partly due to people trying to steal/impose harm for the 'kill' and partly because I don't want others to see me at my weakest.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I also recall key important events nearly as accurately.  With more substantial events recalled in more detail.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At the time, my significant 'other' just moved in as we prepared for engagement/marriage (which that course changed).  I briefly shared it with her but not in detail.  I kept it to myself while attempting to logically talk myself out of the commitment experience before a seer that predicted the driver's daughter and child 10-years earlier to his wife (but back-peddled it with a former car accident experience), 'called-me-out' when the driver's wife found that woman again since it was all truth.  The few that were informed afterwards actually sought my destruction, as if curious to see what would happen (the Godless).  And they plundered me to no end as I still survive against all odds.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feared it more than anything else because of the responsibility it came with.  And that's why I tried to logically find a reason it wasn't real, which I couldn't, and finally just gave up in that direction once a seer called out my experience in detail.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's a burden which lead me to invest in things I never wanted to involve myself in; things that caused more financial hardship to my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It was pretty thorough.  I would separate the 'Before' and 'Current' questioning to include 'Immediately Following' questioning.  Because the 'Immediately Following' may differ from 'Current' based on the human experience that follows.  It's a tough question for some but to add 'How did you feel about your return?' would show that most NDErs don't appreciate their return back (or being revived by others).  That proposed question can be softened up by asking, 'Would you rather be here or there?'

    Experience Description 4922  					</p>  					After breaking my left femur twice, smashing both my knees and breaking both bones in my left forearm, my head crushed my left hand against the dash.  

My spirit was flung out of my body as if I was tossed, landing on my feet and then stopping against an amazing spirit. The top of my head was at the middle of his chest. He was warrior yet father like. He was only an outline, as if the light was behind him. The love was immense. I was angry, not only due to the fact I just put up the fight of my life and failed, but because I already knew everyone else was dead. I actually had to push myself back.  All I wanted to do was stay and listen but I had a body inside a burning car to tend to. So I grabbed the spirit's chest with both my hands, forearms raised against his chest, and said 'I'm not F'n done yet', while telepathically reasoning why I just spoke like that and what I'm committing to for my return with a caveat to return back if I fail.

It was as if my mind was acting as a representative of my spirit (3rd party).  Then I felt that unmistaken coil-back into my own body, as if the spirit's back slammed against the inside of my body's back (like traveling so far so fast yet through such a thin veil). 

Just in enough time to think, 'darn, the airbags have yet to deploy'; it did against my face the moment my stomach muscles tensed to pull back with all my might (slamming the back of my head against the moon roof causing a 10-staple laceration to my occipital scalp).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 11, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A tragic head-on automobile collision that claimed all three other passengers' lives. With 500hp applied at a low speed, seatback with integrated seatbelt and airbag systems. Both failed leaving a lap belt as protection between me and the dashboard.  The airbag actually imposed rear-head injury against the moon roof.  I was the front seat passenger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Through it (it was very brief).

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through it (it was very brief).

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Due to the extremely fast communications' ability and the fact that I was far from where my body was; space and time were practically not existent.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more of a gray space than a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I landed against the chest of one other being. In my eyes, I was meeting the perfect being who was built like a rock with long hair (I cannot say for certain if it was Jesus or a knightly servant).    I said, 'I'm not F'n done yet' while telepathically reasoning why I just spoke like that and what I'm committing to for my return with a caveat to return back if I fail.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was behind the one spirit that I landed against.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I visited the spiritual dimension/level.  I just experienced four bone breaks and yet I was on my feet and using my hands completely out of where my body was.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a love greater than any of this world. Also, anger that I knew I had to voluntarily return, given the fact I already knew everyone else in the accident was dead (based on their positions which I observed before impact which pushed me to fight for my life in the first place as the one with the least odds of survival - front seat passenger).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was aware of every adversary and challenge that would rise against my commitment which has been a constant threat in my life over the past four and a half years.  I wasn't aware just how bad and disturbing the human nature would get against a sole survivor.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   At the time I was attending a Coptic Orthodox Church once every other month

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray more and read the scriptures more.  I follow the 10-commandments.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray more and read the scriptures more.  I follow the 10-commandments.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I already knew that all the others were dead.  I knew the driver and I (friends from 2nd grade) were blessed with the ability to serve large infrastructure improvement projects at an early age and I knew I had to make my commitment to serve additional projects; even pick up on one I always thought the driver would lead on.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Half the people in my life viciously attacked me as if pecking, what they perceived as, the injured chicken to death or challenging the spirit world by stomping on one man claiming to have been there as if enticing further divine intervention.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I've learned the power of prayer and God's hand in everyone's lives.  Not just leaders as I previously thought.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I met who I'll have to answer back to was significant to me.  The fact that my own and the driver's life seemed to have built up and combined at that moment.  The driver always spoke about him dying young and me taking on a large project.  I refused to accept that until this night.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Approximately 3 months after June 11, 2006, the wife of the deceased driver tracked down a woman that predicted his and their daughter's death in an auto accident over a decade earlier (but shrugged it off since it was right after an auto wreck).  That woman insisted she get me on the phone and immediately called me out on both my death and my commitment made.  I was trying so hard to reason myself out of it with no success, and that conversation ceased my effort to continue attempting reason against truth.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've had approximately 8 near death experiences prior to this (2 of which I witnessed other people's reaction to my imminent death that never happened). This was a through death experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was undeniably real but tried everything to logically reason myself out of it with no success.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's a blessing and a curse.  I'm still in survival mode.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I made the commitment doubting I will succeed.  Although I haven't, I've been kept alive a lot longer than I initially thought (I gave myself 1 year).  God's molded events beyond my control to allow me to live beyond the plan I made/could see.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_s_nde.html