{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marla_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Marla W NDE 272","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marla W NDE 272  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marla W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1388 Marla W NDE 272  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't remember the impact or what happened to the vehicles. I felt like I was falling asleep.  When I opened my eyes, I found myself in this place. It was white and soft and peaceful -- not really cotton-like or a fog (although that's the word I use to describe it), just enveloped in white. I seemed to be walking away from where I'd been (and could see myself moving but my legs weren't moving -- I was gliding). I could hear voices around me but not make out what they were saying. After what seemed like many minutes, I became frustrated with the mumbling and stopped. I turned around and began to move closer to the voice that was loudest. As I moved back, the fog became gray and muddy in color and appearance.

Then very suddenly, I was aware of tremendous pain and I cried out. Immediately I felt jolted into blackness and felt as though people were pulling me from all direction. Then I seemed to fall asleep. I woke eighteen hours later in a hospital. Although I believe I was unconscious for eighteen hours, records show that I had drifted in and out of consciousness and was described as dazed and confused. When I woke, I thought it was December 27, 1978. It was three weeks before I regained any memory and after three months, most of it returned. I still have four years of lost memory that doctors say will probably never return.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  28 June 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   A tanker slid sideways and rolled over my vehicle, splitting open the tank and covering my husband and me with fuel. I had a severe head injury and serious laceration to my left arm. My husband thought I'd bled to death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Unlike other descriptions I've read at your site, I did not see my body, but saw my consciousness glide away.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt conscious during the experience, however, my husband and emergency medical technicians' reports list me as drifting in and out of consciousness -- dazed and confused.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The plane I visited was unlike anything I'd ever experienced and time seemed to move very slowly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Mumbling that grew in intensity.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     But it didn't have walls, it was made of a fog like substance.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I found myself in a place where the fog was brighter away from me and dull and muddy behind me

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The fog area was beautiful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace at first, softness, calmness, then frustration as I was returning.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew peace like I'd never known before.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm less critical of others, forgiving those who I'd held in contempt for years. I no longer feel the need to find a church with beliefs that match my own, but now accept my spiritual beliefs without trying to analyze to convince others that they must agree with me.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, a feeling of appreciation for every day, a love of life, no fears of death, a feeling that everything will be alright for years to come. Worst, memory loss that haunted me for nearly a year.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most think I was dreaming or am being dramatic. No one has said they were influenced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marla_w_nde.html