{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marla_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Marla D NDE 6918","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marla D NDE 6918  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marla D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3469 Marla D NDE 6918  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on a road trip to see my oldest daughter.  After driving over 2 hours and almost at the end of the trip, I became lifeless. I was driving, and then I was above my body, aware of my car swerving off and back on the interstate highway.  I was where the top of the car was, but there was no ceiling in my way.  I laughed and was a bit embarrassed because I was not driving right.  'What am I doing off the road'? I was saying.  I also heard tires squealing to the right of me. The time length is weird here. Not sure if it happened slower or faster than I was aware.   I was aware of the car heading towards the concrete median.  

Then I felt airborne, and said, 'well, I've wrecked my life'. I knew or saw that my body was going either to be damaged, dead or very messed up. I felt lifted upward. I did not look at my body during this event.  I was aware of what was happening. 

When I became conscious, it was as if waking up from a sleep.  People were already outside of the car, and the rescue team had already been called.  I do not know how long I was not awake. I was in the Trauma Unit, then in the hospital.  I was given scans and tests.  No one could tell me what happened. The instant I woke up I KNEW that I should be dead; even though I had no clue what my injuries were. I KNEW that God had kept me alive.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'August 15, 2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I became lifeless while driving.  My car wrecked and flipped over, skidded 100 feet on the top.  My scalp was partially removed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There were cars near my car during my ordeal.  Witnesses said my car came very close to others.  My car flipped up and over.  There is the sound of breaks that I heard; and the car flipped up: I felt myself lifted upward.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Before the violence of the wreck, I was aware of the events that were around me, and that were going to happen.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The first part of my being out

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I seemed to be in a different air, dimension, or level or layer. Not in normal reality.  I was aware and watching the event. I was not in a body.  I thought out loud.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was aware of what was happening.  I could see, and was more aware.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear myself thinking.  I could hear tires squeal.  I did not see any other car.  I was laughing about my car swerving: aware of the car going to crash.  NOT AFRAID. I was just aware. I was raised away, upward.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Embarrassed, laughed. I realized with some concern that I would be dead or badly injured.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I grew up in a Minister's home.  My parents, grandparents, etc. were Christians.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew immediately that GOD had kept me alive.  I had no clude what my injuries were when I awoke.  When I awoke I did not lose conciousness again.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not spending time being negative. I am not afraid of death.  Being dead means eternity begins.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was above my body in a different demension.  I was aware.  But not groggy like a dream.  I was not closed in, the roof of the car had no place in this different part of the world that I was in.  Nothing material was in my way.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The knowing that: I, my earthly body, was going to be badly hurt. I was not afraid.  I just was aware.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am not afraid to die. I see life different.  I am happy more.  I do not like to do things that are a waste of time. I tell others of the experience.  I tell others to do things they want to do.  Do not fight or fuss with others. I feel we are here for OTHERS.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes People are inspired after hearing of my experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   In the hospital, under a lot of medication, I had difficulty talking about the experience.  It was weeks later that I told a few people about it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I have thought about the event many times.  Every detail.  I remember what I saw and experienced.  I was such a COOL thing to experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was a young adult I heard a woman tell her story of being dead for 30 minutes before coming back to life. My experience was not like hers.  I did not follow a light or see heaven.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could hear the sounds and relive the experience in my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still remember the experience: the details.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marla_d_nde.html