{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7498","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n23_dec_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N23 December 1885","mylang":"de"}
yo. UIII.-VoL. II. D&cDUIl. 1815.
JOURNAL
01' THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CORTBRTI.
!i.., 1I_ben and AIIoclatea ..
MeetlDg of CoUDcIl •• . . . . . . . . •• . •
AbDOlIDCIIIDeDt of General1leet.lDg •• •• . . . . •• . .
Fnr$ber Notes on the UncoDlC1oua !\elf, by Mr. F. W. H. KJera
Cuea received by the L1w..r, CommUtee .• . . . .
(»1lU8POJ(])DJIm :--Slaw·WrIUDg. Mr. G. R.Vlcara ..
l!upplement&!7 L1brarJ C&talqrue •. •• •• . .
NEW 1IE}[BERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
PARKER, EDWARD W., Little Rock, Arkansas, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
BEVAN, ~Ins., 56, Hans Place, London, S.W.
PolO.
.• W
..W
.. 122
.. 12!
.. 131
•• 161
•• 162
CnRISTOPIIER, H. CARMICIIAEL, 50, Romola. Road, Heme Hill, London,
S.E.
CLl880LD, EDWARD MORTIMER, M.A., United University Club, Suffolk
Street, London, S.W.
FAGAN, MRS., 26, Manchester Squa.re, London, W.
HARRIS, J. OnANTREY, New Zealand Times Office, Wellington, ~ew
Zealand.
HARRISON, MIs.~ J. E. 4:1 (D), Colville Gardens, London, W .
•JOYCE, T. HEATH, 21, Camden Square, London, N.W.
LA TouR, MISS JULIET, Broadlands, Romsey, Hants.
liARTEN, MISS A. R., 30, Woodland Villas, Blackheath, S.E.
RICHARDSON, MISS G., Moya.nen House, Gilford, Co. Down.
Ross, JOSEPH C.\RNF., M.D., Shian, Penzance.
STEPNEY, HON. LADY, 3, Ohesham Street, London, S.W.
WmTLBY, EDWARD FORBES, Penarth House, Truro.
YOUNG, MRS., Les CombouMulises, Dinan, COtes du Nord, Franct'.
llEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Council Meeting held on the 27th November, the following
~IemLers were present :-Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Guntey,
Richard Hodgson, C. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, J.
Herbert Stack, and Hensleigh Wedgwood. Mr. Wedgwood, as Vice-
President, took the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed l1.I
correct.
I
gitized by (.oogI
122 Journal Qf &ciel!llo" Psychical Beuarcll. [Dec.,I"
One new Member and fourteen new Associates were duly elected;
their names and addresses are given on the previous page.
The death of Professor John Smith, of Sydney University, Australia,
a Corresponding Member of the Society, was recorded with regret.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, which are acknow-
ledged in the Supplementary Catalogue.
The U8U&1 statements of account, made up to date, were presented
and passed.
A grant of .£10 was authorised to the Library Committee, for the
purchase of books.
In response to an application from the "London Library" for a set-
of the Society's Proce«lingl, which stated that "not infrequent applica-
tion is made" for them, it was agreed that two complete copies be
presented.
It was resolved that the next General Meeting of the Society be
held on Saturday, the 2nd of January, 1886, the chair to be taken
at 8.30 p.m.
The following dates for future General Meetings were also agreed
upon, viz. :-Saturday, the 6th of March j Monday, the 3rd of May;
and Monday, the 5th of July.
The Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society was
fixed to be held at the Society's Rooms, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W., QD
Friday, the 29th of January, at 4 p.m.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Saturday, the 2nd of
January.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
The Next General Meeting of the Society will be held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, S.W., OD
Saturday, the 2nd of January. The chair will be taken at 8.30 p.m.
FURTHER NOTES ON THE UNCONSCIOUS SELF.
It may be within the recollection of readers of this Jouf'ftlli that
on January 30th, 1885. I submitted to the Society a paper on
"Automatic Writing," in which I endeavoured to explain certain
phenomena-too often ignored (as I thought) by one school, too hastily
referred to extra-human agencies by another-by the hypothesis of a
second centre of ~ntation potentially existing within our own brains,
and called into action by some underlying energy of our own.
I did not assert, and I do not suppose, that tbis hypothesis would
explain all the reported cases of automatic writing. On the con~rary,
I am still endeavouring to collect instances which clearly go beyo-nd my
hypotbesis, for discussion in another paper. My appeal for such case&-
especially for anything which may tend to establish the identity of a
Digitized by Google
Dec..l885.] Journal of &ciet!lfor Pl!Jckical RuIu,v:I,. 123
oommumcating intelligence-has received a very scanty response. I
can only repeat it, with a renewed assurance of the profound interest
which these more advanced cases, if really provable, must possess.
But in the meantime the hypothesis of an unconscious self has shown
itself, at any rate, 80 far appropriate to the present state of our
knowledge, that it has been independently urged by several GermaJl
writers of high repute, and has received illustration and corroboratiou
from a great number of French experiments undertaken with other
objects in view. In England, too, such criticisms as have appeared
from non-Spiritualistic quarters have been for the most part favourable,
a feeling having apparently gained greund that the abnormal
phenomena of which I have treated do really exist, and that the
hypothesis suggested is worth discussion. The Spiritualistic organa, ou
the other band, have been dissatisfied with a view which at any rate
much narrows the field in which the operation of disembodied intelli-
geuces can plausibly be invoked.
Such dissatisfaction is perhaps natural; yet I cannot help hoping
that reflection may convince Spiritualists that, if their theory be in the
main true, it cannot but gain by such discussion as I have attempted.
For no theory 80 important and novel has ever acquired a hold on the
educated world without full and frank debate, without the strenuoWl
attention of minds numerous and different enough to view the facts
in dispute in every possiblo light. If Spiritualism be regarded merely
as an additional dogma designed to win emotional credence from chosen
souls, then a disturbance of that, as of other religious dogmas, will be
met. with resentment and alarm. But if it be regarded-as surely its
esteemed leaders do regard it-as a system of facts possessing not only
ahigh emotional but a high scientific value,-then the desire must be to
see it built up as other sciences have been built and are now building,
by the shock of many theories, and as the ou~ of many divergent
,lines of experimentation. For my part, the t • g that seems to me
surest is, that however the strange mass of· pernormal phenomena
may be ultimatdy explained, any theory which the wisest of us could
auggest at this incipient stage of the long inquiry ,vill be seen to have
been but a rude and shallow approximation to the truth.
Some earnestly-written papers by the Hon. Roden Noel, in
Lig'" for October 24th and succeeding numbers, give expression to
the feeling of dissatisfaction above mentioned; and my respect for
Mr. Noel naturally suggests the selection of these papers, from amongst
others by critics of less note, as a first text f01" my reply.
I find myself, however, much embarrassed by a want which is
daily becoming more conspicuous; the absence, namely, of any
reeogniaed English text-book embracing all abnormal conditiol18 of
mind, to which reference may be made in such discussions as th~
G 121
Digitized by oog e
124 JOItI"lIal qf Societ!l .fOI" PsycMC(/! &8('(/1"('1,. [Dec.,1885.
The valuable works of Drs. Carpenter and Maudsley are somewhat
slnaller in scope, and hardly abreast of recent investigation; the
light-bringing tractates of Dr. Hughlings Jackson are scattered and not
popularly known; and M. Ribot's admirable monographs on the
maladies of the memory, the will, the personality, cover only a
portion of the wide field. Yet some knowledge of these and similar
works must necessarily be presupposed if our discussion is to be
more than a merely verbal controversy. In this branch of psych-
ology, at any rate, we cannot afford to ignore physiological data. If
we attempt to take 1\ "high priori road," we shall be in danger
of finding ourselves not above, but below, the current physiological
conceptions of the day,-of reverting to the cruder explanations of a
pre-scientific age.
When Mr. Noel, for instance, suggests that madness may be "due
to converse with genii or dremolls" (Light, p. 530), or that ordinary
hallucinations and dreams involve" spiritpi action from without upon
the individual" (p. 530), or that" the \K-ea.m-personages who converse
with the sleepers are verily spirits" * (p. 530), one begins to see the
dangers of a too resolute avoidance of any contaminating knowledge of
the labours of the ma.terialistic school. "~Von ragionam di lor,"
exclaims Mr. Noel (p. 516), "111.0, glumla e paisa!" but the single
glance of disdain with which the medireval poet contented himself \\--ill
scarcely equip the modern disputant for a triumphant course of polemic.
Thus, again, I note that Mr. Noel, though it appears (p. 58i) that
he is cognisant of the class of actions commonly known as "secondarily
automatic," has hardly realised of what such actions consist. For,
whereas it is a well-known fact that (for instance) a girl playing on the
piano can often remember the tune better with her fingers than with
her head, Mr. Noel considers it a grotesque notion (p. 515) that" I
inform myself through the muscles of my hand of whll.t I did not know-
and yet I did know-only without consciousness." Somewhat similarly,
but with a more complicated confusion, he supposes (p. 5IG) that
experiences which "enter the current of normal consciousness through
our brain," are necessarily first apprehended as central and not as
peripheral sensations. Again, he asks the question, " At what limit of
feet or inches does one identity stop and another begin ," as though
it were a reductio ad absurdum of views which could make the question
• In one respect Mr. Noel certainly concedes more to the tmconsciou8 self
than I should be disposed to claim for it. For he holds (p. 556) that "if 1
dream of a pel"llOn in II. position in which he is not, 80 far B8 his nonnal COD-
sciousneB8 is concerned," .. it is difficultto account for the appearance," without
HOme 8uch hypothesL'! aq that of an actual secondary sell of that p8J"11On's, which
is where I dream of him. Thus, if I dream that Mr. Bradlaugh 18 seated on the
woolsack, and he is not there corporea.lly, his spiritual self is there nevertheleSl!.
At this rate I can ollly hope that Illy friends will not dream that I am in-well,
.831 in Texas.
~•• l885.] Jot.rnal oj 80delll lor PS!lchical Research. 125
possiblc; not knowing, apparently, that, whether absurd or not, this is
a recognised form of medico-legal inquiry in cases of monstrous birth.
Still more surprisingly, Mr. Noel supposes (p. 556)-or, rather, states
that he has "shown elsewhere"-that "the very fact of one's remem-
bering a person at all proves his transcendent reality-the transcen-
dent reality of his past, out of which he influences us to remember
him": so that, by analogy, my recollection of a. squib which I let oft'
as a boy shows that the transcend~nt reality of that squib is still
influencing me to remember it.
I Joight greatly extend this list of what my readers will, perhaps,
consider as misapprehensions of a somewlmt rudimentary kind. But I
am by no means anxious to do this; for I do not do Mr. Noel the
injustice of accusing him of pretending to a knowledge which he does
not possess. My argument is rather that without some endeavour to
bring our theori~ into harmony with established physiological facts our
discourse on these perplexing topics will be equally facile and barren.
Nothing is easier or more attractive than to wander over the psychical
field, supporting our favourite theories, whenever we desire it, by an
appeal to the convenient authority of "intuition." " Such an inspira.
tion as that referred to," says Mr. Noel, speaking of the somnambulist's
" guides" (p. 543), "is more probably what intuition discerns, the
in.Ilowing of the Holy Spirit, which, while we are still earth-bound, is
rather primarily the influence of more ele,-a.ted or advanced souls or
angels, than tha.t of our own holier consciousness, though assuredly this
also may be aroused into momentary glow and fervour by their exalted
ministration." "Assuredly," to use Mr. Noel's word, it will be very
~areeable if this is the case; but one would like to feel rather morQ
certain as to his special source of information.
"Surcly, surely," exclaims Mr. Noel again (p. 588), remonstrating
~"Ilinst the.too physiological aspect of our Proceedings; "surely, surely
we are on the wrong tack! Physiology is a bli~ alley, an unreliable
ally. Must we, indeed, throw this sop to the feitgeist Cerberus, or
won't hc let us pass I"
Now, in reply to this earnest utterance I would venture to say that
physiology (whether Mr. Noel decides to call it an alley or an ally) is, at
any rate, an indispensable factor in every one of the problems which
we are here discussing. I do not mean that we Psychical Researchers
ought all of us to be able to pass a stiff examination in physiology,
though I think that a special training like Mr. Gurney's is a very great
advantage; but I mean that, d+'~i,r aDd half-instructed though we may
be,we are bound to use our very best endea,·ours to master the physiologi-
cal side of each phenomenon before we attempt to assign its psychical
Talue. Most fortunately for us, physiological conceptions are not, for
the most part, expressed in algebraical fOl·mulre, and a layman of
Digitized by Google
126 J"u''M1 of Society for P8ychical RR8earch. (Dec., 1885.
ordinary education and care can at least avoid gross error, and follow
the best thought of his time.
Nor does this reverence for actual physical fact imply any defection
from an idealistic standpoint. Speculatively -if my speculativeopinions
are to be alluded to-I am as pure an idealist as Mr. Noel himself. I,
too, suppose-if we are to indulge in supposition-that this "isible
universe itself only exists in the minds which perceive it, and that ~me
intelligence wrought otherwise than ours might swoop from end to end
of our thron!;e<i galaxy, unhindered and unknowing, and heedlessly as
& sea-mew winging above the bones of sunken men.
" There the sunlit ocean tosses,
O'er them mouldering,
And the lonely seabird Cl'088eB
With one waft of the wing."
But neither Mr. Noel nor I are likely to prot'e this interesting thesis,
&nd in the meantime we are surely bound to remember (what! fear
that Mr. Noel sometimes forgets) that although the physical laws which
regulate phenomena are as unreal as anything else, yet they are also
as real as anything else, and we cannot get any nearer to the truth by
only looking at the phenomena and shutting our eyes to the laws. "Some
(
. men have said," remarked the cautious divine, "that things in general
are dangerous. But on the other hand, my brethren, we must
\ remember that there is no safety in anything ill particular."
\ Thus much it seems needful to say, in general answer to Mr. Noel's
method of argument. But in the present state of the inquiry, in which
we are all groping somewhat blindly among theories whose complew
purport we can scarcely seize, it would be undesirable to spend much
space on smaller points of controversy. To some of Mr. Noel's difficul-
ties he must already have seen my reply-if I am right in intt>rpreting
Iris words" see NineteentJ, Cent'lJ,1"'IJ," (p. 575) to mean that he has read a
paper of mine which appeared in the ContemporfJ1"'IJ Review. For some
other points I would have referred him to an article on "Human
Personality," in the Fortniu1ttly for November, 1885, but that I observe
that he cites it (p. 556) in defence of a "transcendental self which is in
Providential, intuitive harmony with that of the mesmeriser," from
which I gather that he interprets that essay in sOlpe occult
manner, to which I can as yet find no clue. This slight tAakntendu,
however, is more than compensated by the admirable candour with
which Mr. Noel states (p. 587) that "circumstances had prevented [his]
reading till now" the paper of mine in Proceeding. VIII., whose
conclusions his own five previous a.rticles have been engaged in refuting.
It is a solid satisfaction in controversy to feel assured that one's critic,
after actual perusal of one's work, sees no reason to alter the judgment
on it which he has already expressed.
Dec.,1885.J JOIlNUJI fit Societyfor P8!JcAical ReuarcA. 127
Considering, then, how unfamiliar is this whole tract of thought.
how slight are the clues which any of us possess to guide us through its
mazes, I think that what I ought first to attempt is to give some sort
of precision to the terms which we have constantly to use, and which
it is evident that we interpret in many dift'erent ways.
The process may, perhaps, be a tedious one, but I must say once for
all that if one inch of &88ured ground is gained in these mattera-at
whatever cost of tedious elaboration or minute analysis-there will be
no need of any apology. What does need apology is just the opposite
defect-namely, the inevitable slightness and sketchinea of the work
which any of us can do at present in an inquiry whose data are &8 yet
so scanty and obscure.
And first. &8 to the words" conscious .. and "consciousness," which
are among the most difficult and important of all.
II The terms consciousness and automatism," justly remarks Dr.
Ireland,* "are terms which in medical treatises are used with various
meanings, sometimes by the same authors on dift'erent pages. Though
I cannot define consciousness, I can surely make the reader understand
what I mean by being conscious. I feel, I touch, I smell, I hear, I
see, I desire, I love, I suffer, I fear, I hope, I think, I imagine, I will;
all this means that I am conscious."
Before attempting to give something more of definiteness to our
notion of what consciousness is, I may just indicate the way in which
Hr. Noel employs this difficult term.
"An unconscious self," says Mr. Noel (p. 515), "could not possibly
be thul identified with a conscious." "It must always remain alien, and
OIltside consciousness," he continues, "and therefore it cannot belong
to the same self at all. . . • The unconscious caJlDot identify
itself with the conscious, Dor 'Vice wrBC1"
This last sentence seems to me a typical illustration of the danger
of using words &8 metaphysical counters, Dot &8 definite representations
of observed facts. I do not ,mean merely that it is a lliglU" ab.tract
aentence; highly abstract sentences are, of course, necessary in their
place; but they should fulfil this test :-they should be capable of being
translated or expanded into concrete terms. But this sentence, I think,
can only seem true so long &8" the conscious" and "the unconscious "
are kept &8 mere symbols-like the" A and not-A" of the abstract
logician. As soon &8 we endeavour to attach a concrete definite
mf'&Ding to the two terms here used, we find that the whole difficulty
lies in knowing what really is A and what is not A, and what kincl of
relations the two do in fact bear to one another.
Let us, then, look at the problem a little more closely. Agreeing
with Dr. Ireland that a satisfactory definition of consciousness is almost
• "The Blot upon tbe Brain," p. 235.
Digitized by Google
128 Journal of Society for PS1lcMcai RtuarcA. [Dec.,1885.
impossible, let us try to get, at least, to sufficiently close quarters with
the idea to avoid such constantly recurring misapprehensions as disguise
substantial agreement, and impede systematic advance.
It is commonly said that C01I8cioumus is a notion so simple and ulti-
mate that no description thereof can be offered, which is not obscurer
than the word itself. This may be so ; but nevertheless there must
be some expression which is nearly equivalent; there must be somc
test which we apply when we are asked whether any cerebral action, of
our own or other people's, is accompanied by consciousness or not.
A little consideration shows that we do in fact apply two teats. We
ask whether the cerebral action is complez, and we ask whether it is
capable of being remembered.
For instance: the question has been discussed whether the acts which
a hypnotised subject performs under suggestion, and which he has com-
pletely forgotten when he wakes, are to be considered as accompanied
with consciousness. It is then argued that the acts are comple:l:--that.
they resemble acts which in our waking selves are always accompanied
by consciousness, and that therefore they must be classed as conscious_
And this argument is strengthened by the remark that in a second
hypnotic trance the subject remembers the acts do;J in the first.
Again, the same question is mooted as regards "08t-epileptic states.
After an attack of epilepsy,· a man may remain for some minutes, hours.
or even days,- in a state in which ordinary consciousness is completely
interrupted, while, nevertheless, he is able to perform complex acts, as
speaking, eating, climbing, dr;c. Now there is not as yet (so far as I
know), any casa where a series ofpost-epileptic acts have been provably
remembered in a succeeding poat-epileptic period. We feel, therefore,
tb,at the argument for c~ as accompanying these acts is at
present incomplete. Yet the analogy of the remembrance of hypnotic
memories--and, in one often cited case, of dru,lken memories-as well
as the observed identity of recurrent epileptic 11411ucinntiomin the same
subject, may lead us to anticipate that these post-epileptic states may
have a thread of inter-connection, and may be all of them conceivably
rememberable after each fresh fit.
I cite this instance here, however,only to show the kind of consider-
ations to which we have to resort if we are called on to describe any
cerebral operations as accompanied by consciousness or the reverse. It
seems that the complexity of an act alone does not suffice to convince us
thatthe act has been conscious.We keep recurring to the questionwhether
·The moet marked case of this kind with which I am acquainted, is cited by
Dr. Ireland ("BlotupontheBrain,"po 347)fromtlte.AmericanJoumalojIfllflnUy.
July, 1873. In this case the patient, though a landsman, shipped as a lI&ilor in
'he poet·epileptic state, and was several days before returning to normal con-
..ioumeas.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1885.) J()fIrnal qf &cietu for P,!/cAical Rtaearcll. 129
theact is ever remembered. And, indeed, is not this the best description
of our own conscious acts and sensations 1 They are acts which we
I j't'nemher. Even to realise them at all in consciousneBB requires, as
~:cho-physiologists have shown us, a certain.J¥eaBurable period. When
my hand is pinched, and I feel it, a longer lCeural process takes place
than if my hand were pinched while I was under chloroform. And if
I become what is called fuUy comciotU that someone is pinching my
hand-that is, if I not only feel the sensation, but attmd to it, a still
longer time is necessary. And one result or concomitant of this
expenditure of time is that I can recollect the sensation afterwards.
My consciousness has itself been a sort of remembrance, and it has
then transformed itself into another sort of remembrance.
Let us give some common name ~ all acts or sensations- which have
reached a pitch of intensity such as to enable them at SODle future time
to reappear in memory. We will not call them rtl1Wl1lberabk; for than
word has acquired a narrower, but useful, meaning. By rememberable
we usually mean m:olkct-Gbk; capable of being voluntarily brought
back into memory. Let us take lI~k for our wider word j for the
special connotation of "memorable,"-i.e., duerring of being remem-
bered,-is not germane to these discUBBions, nor likely to confuse us.
~
d let us, by way of an experiment in definition, say that conacious
means memorabk, and describe those operations as conscious which
haye reached a sufficient pitch of intensity to be capable of reappearing
in the field of memory if a favourable occasion recurs. We will
um to this definition when we have glanced at some of the facts
which may test its usefulness. Meantime, and taking this as a
provisional definition of consciousness, my contention is, noe, as
lOme of my critics seem to suppose, that a man (say Socrates) has
within him a conscious and an unconscious self, which lie side by side,
but apart, and find expreBBion alternately, but rather that Socrates'
mind is capable of concentrating itself round more than one focus,
either simultaneously or successively. I do not limit the number of the
loci to two, and I do not suppose that the division of the brain into two
hemispheres is the only neural fact corresponding to the psychical fact
alleged. I do not venture to localise my hypotheticalfDei to any extent
beyond the limits which the localisations of cerebral faculty (as of
speech and writing), otherwise established, may be held to justify.
The position which I have ultimately to defend is this: That one
focus of potEntial (not necessarily of actual) consciousneBS in Socrates
IDaY acquire knowledge or perform operations not acquired or performed
by another focus, and may communicate such knowledge or the result
of such operations thereto in ways to which we can at present assign
no definite limit; and with varying degrees of subjective fusion
l.etwcen the more or less separated centres of mentation.
Digitized by Google
130 Journaloj' &cictgfo,. P8!1cMcai ReuQI·cA. [Dec.. 188.').
This thesis is unavoidably cumbrous; I will support it by
illustrations, as brief and easy as I can make them, from familiAr
cerebral phenomena.
Let us take, in the first place, what are called the inBpircltior&& of
Denim. I conceive that these inspirations may be best understood as
hidden transferences, from thfl unconscious to the conscious mind, of
ideas which have already attained an unusual degree of force or
elaboration. When the words .. Ma,.t6mque a.ccfltuUre cantu" (the
unique and long-sought completion of a majestic but truncated hexa-
meter) flashed into Virgil's mind (as tradition tells us) at a stroke, I
conceive that it was a phenomenon of the same kind as the Calculating
Boy's sudden perception of the cube root of some high number. In
each case the 'unconscious brain was able to pour, if I may so say, a
stream more than usually nutritious into the conscious channel, to
Jlupply results of completed excellence without any perceptible efrort 'of
.discovery or choice. Genius thus in a certain sense illustrates the rule
that all nervous action tends to become rell.ex-is, at any rate, more
-exactly efficient as it approaches the reflex type. Just as the spinal
centres of a great skater are better organised than mine, and enable
him to balance himself without conscious efrort in attitudes where my
whole attention would not suffice to keep me erect, even so Virgil's
brain, orMr. Bidder's,accomplished automatically and without attention
what, perhaps, no other human being could have rivalled by any amount
~f conscious strain. The man of genius is inapired, no doubt, but be
is inspired by his own unconscious self.
And here, perhaps, lies the real alliance between "great wits and
madness." The madman, like the man of genius, feels the inrush of
ideas which have acquired a high degree of concentration and energy
before they enter the conscious stream of existence. They burst upon
him as though they were the promptings of an angel or a devil, while
they are really the product of a morbid excitement in part of his 0\\,11
brain. Or, similarly, he walks rapidly and without fatigue because
the centres which govern this movement do not report themseh'es
properly to anyone presiding authority,-have pro tanto dissociated
themselves from his conscious self. Thus the ordinary man is like the
master of a small business, who governs his subordinates thoroughly,
but has all the trouble of thinking out what each of them is to do. The
madman has not this trouble; but bis subordinatc& rush wildly o.llOut
and his business goes to ruin. The man ofgenius a.gain is spared this
trouble; for his subordinates. are highly trained persons who go o.oout
their work of their own motion, and bring him elaborate reports which
make his decisions easy. The hypnotised subject again occupies a. kind
of intermediate position. He is a master who concerns himself less
;than anyone with the doings of his servants, but his difficulty is in
Digitized by Google
Dec.. 1885.] Journal qf 8~ietvlor PBVcllical RtBetlrcl,. 131
getting more than one servant to attend to him at II. time. Still he
affords us our best chance ofdoing what we must plainly desire; that is
of placing the threshold of consciousness just where we want it to be, 80
that we may be unconscious not only of our aches and pains, but of our
first blundering misapprehensions and distressing efforts at thought,
while we retain the conscious control and disposition of all the
material which these back-shops of our brain have worked up.
I do not wish, however, in the present paper, to go beyond the
discussion of normal waking life. And I contend that the normal
waking life of imaginative mind8+--the poet, the invf'ntor, the orator,
the gifted mathematician-already illustrates, although, of course, in
an obscurer manner, that concurrence of conscious and unconscious
streams of thought which becomes more conspicuous in various super-
normal, abnormal, and morbid states. In the man of genius the two
factors are concordant and collaborath-e; they fuse into the highest
service of the one identity. But then-since the ascription to me of
unproved hypotheses which are not mine compels me to mention the
unproved hypothesis which v-I conceive that precisely the same
concordance and collaboration underlies all the supernormal partitions
of a primary and a secondary self. I conceive that one transcendentat'J
self in each of us, behind the phf'nomenal, works with manifold
hindrance and imperfection through the nerve-centres which are as tho
looms which express and specialise its informing power, and weaves our
being's varying tapestry with the unity of a single impulse, and of no
design from long ago.
FRBDBRIe 'V. H. MYERS.
(To be contintud.)
CASEl-; RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Oootitlued.)
In dillcWllling caaea of so-called haunted houses in the paper on
"Phantaamsof the Dead," which appeared in the Pl'Ocuditag., Part VIII.,
I mentioned that besides the narratives I had aelected, there were in the
collection made by the Society perhaps half-a-dol".en other well-attested
uarratives of similar apparitions, in the same houae to dift'erent pel'lOns,
who cannot easily besupposed to have been in a state of excited expectation,
but that, for varioUl reasons, they did not aeem to me quite on a par, frem
an evidential point of view. with those which I gave; though they oertainly
ought not to be left out of account in estimating the whole evidence. As
many of the Members and A880Ciates of the Society do not live in London and
have not, therefore, easy access to the collection of narratives printed 011
slipe, it aeems worth while to reprint in the .Toumal most of the stories which
I mould be disposed to place in the second class ; especially· R8 my selection
represents only the judgment of a single individual, and it is quite pouible
that others might estimate the evidential value of the dift'erent stories
Digitized by Google
132 JOIINI«/ of Societ!/ for P8!Jcltical &lIearcl.. [Dec.. 188.'\.
(lifl'orently. The names of places and witnesses arc in all cases known to th~
Committee.
ELP':A.~OR MILDRED SIDGWICL
G. I1.-16.
R-- Nm.sBRY.
Related by Madame -- to us, 12th July, 1882. She is clear and exact in
her statements, and seems a credible witnoeB.-F. P., E. R. P.
In June, 1880, Mrs. B., widow of General B., now living at The --.
--, took the lease of R-- Nunnery, near H--, from the Hon. Mrs. R..
who llerself held it on lease from the owner--. The house, which isan old
one, having actually been a convent, had, as I know, the reputation of being
haunted.
In July or August of tllat year I went down to stay in the hollSe. 1
occuI,ied the brown room. On the evening of my arrival, it being then
bright twilight, 1 left lily room to fetch some hot water. I went along the
lJassage and down the three steps leading to the new part of the hollSe. The
door at the end of the passage leading into Mrs. Ormerod',:, room stood open.
and there is also a skylight in the now part of tho houso, so that both th~
passage and the steps were fairly light. On the stel)S I paesed a figure.
which I took to be the housemaid, tall, slender, dressed in black, and white
hair, and, 1 think, a cap on her head. As the steps were very narrow, I
thought it rather rude of the housemaid to paes me, and 110t rather to stand
aside and make way for me. I made a remark to thisefl'ecttoMra. Fletcher.
the housekeeper. The next morning, however, I saw the housemaid-&
short, dumpy person-and felt convinced that hers W:lS not the figure I
had met.
On thinking the matter over afterwards, it struck lIle as odd that I could
not recollect that the figure had touched me as it paesed me. Afterwards I
heard from Mrs. B. par~iClllars of the figure seen by Mrs. Ormerod in the
autumn of the same year, and I came to the conclusion that I had aeen the
8aJlle figure. In confirmation of this Mrs. B. told me that the figure was
reported to have been aeen more than once on those 8aJlle stairs.
In the autumn of 1881 Mrs. Ormerod, an old lady of between 60 and 70,
the widow of a Welsh clergyman, who was stopping in the house, was Bitting
in her bedroom one afternoon, in broad daylight, when she heard the door
opened, and turning round, saw a tall, Blender figure, dressed all in black.
with anowy hair, and, apparently, a cap on tIte head. The figure disappeared,
and Mrs. Ormerod went in to Mn. B. to ask her why she had come in in
that odd way and fri~htelled her. Mrs. B. had not been in the room.
This 8aJlle figure is said to have been seen also by some of tIte servants.
All this I heard from Mrs. B., in the autumn of 1881.
One very hot Sunday in July (or perhaps. August) of 1881, I was again
stopping at R-- Nunnery. I was lying on my bed ill the afternoon, some.
tinte between three and five p.m., .and I had just closed my book, feeling my
eyes rather tired. The door was ol)en, and looking up, I saw a figure going
up tho t.hreo steps outside the door, and proceeding ill the direction of one
of the spare bedrooms. The tigure was that of a short lady of a springy
figure, in all old-fashioned dress, high-waisted, with bib, and short puff'
alee\"OB, and long mittena on the arms. The dress was of a dark, old-faahiuoed
Digitized by Google
Dec.,1885.] JOllnlalof &ciefyfor Psychical Rellenrrlt. 13.'3
age green figured cotton, the pattern such as we see in the oM-fashioned
bed-hangings. I saw the-figure in profile. I followed it at once into theroom,
into which it must have gone, and from which there was no otheroutlet, and
lIIl&l'Ched the room thoroughly, but could find no trace of anyone.
I have not heard of this figure having been seen by anyone else : but I
h:l\'e heard from Mrs. B. thatseveral figures have been seen at different times
by the IIOrvants.
In September or October, 1881, I was sitting in my room-the brown
room-ataboutsix p.m. one afternoon, with my head resting on my hand, as
1folt very tired. It was still broad daylight. I turned round, IUld saw
atanding about two yards from me, a tall, slender figure, dressed entirely in
black, with snow white hair, and a cap on the head. But the face W88 what
atruc:k me particularly. It was pale, with an expreBSion which I can hardly
describe-and which I do not now like to recall-an expreBSion flf extreme
grief or despair. The figure vanished immediately. From the dreBS and
general appearance I recognised the figure as the same I had seen on tho
.tairs about a year before.
Most extraordillary noises were heard at various times both by myselfand
others in the house.
Mrs. B. left the hoUllO in March, 1882. It is 11011' sublet to a Mr. L., who
intenda to vacate it in October of this year.
JANE--.
The corrections in the above were ~e by mo at Madame --'s dicta-
tion : the whole (as above written and corrected), was carefully read over
by me to her, and after a promise that it should not be made public, was
aigned by her in my presence, this fourth day of August, 1882.-W. DONE
BUSBBLL, Assistant Master Harrow School.
Madame --'s objection to publicity is fowlded on the difficulty Mrs. B.
might experience in letting the house. She thinks that Mrs. B. would be
aogry with her did she know that she talked about the hauntings, and
requests that if any application be made to view the house, her nallle be in
no way mentioned. Madame -- describes the first figure as stately in
appearance, the second as .. springy"-springing up two steps at a time-
altort and slight. She details at length the careful way in which, on tho
flCClllion referred to in July, 1881, she thoroughly searched the room.-
W. Don BUSHELL, A"9U1lt 4U~, 1882.
Madame --'s position is that of a confidential upper servant. Sho
attenda to the hair, having considerable influence by her manipulations in
curing and preventing headaches. She has been known for Illany years to
many of the residents here, also to the Dean of Llandaff, who employs her,
and many others.-W. D. B.
G.II.-24.
The following narrative sent to us by Mrs. B-, relates to 1\ houae in
Wales.
F-- Hall, 15Ul Decembm', 1882.
GDTLBlIlD.-Obeerving your letter in yesterday's paper, I send aeme
(acta which have mystified me and my husband. We took this house last
September, 1881, situated on a hill, quarter of a mile from the village of
Digitized by Google
134 Jo",."nll!f Society for Pll1lrJ.ical Ra«lrcIt. [Dec., l.885.
H--. The first night I waa kept awake by the Sp&l'll of an iron bedstead.
which were looee in the t-P, being taken up, and then dropped, ending
in a great rustling of papen and lOme one moving. Having a large dog in
the bedroom, I thought he was lying on paper, but the next morning I fouud
him lying on a piece £If carpet, no paper near him. We laid the disturbance
to the elderly couple in charge of the place, not liking the house to be let.
One morning, last spring, Mr. B-- told me a woman was by the bedside
last night.-" I did not t.all you then, because I knew you were uneasy about
a sick sister."
I inquired of the woman who had lived there 15 years, and she said her
husband-a God-fearing man-had seen the apparition of a woman four times.
I spoke to a servant we had brought with us, and he said "Quite true, twice
I have been awoke by a hand on my head and face." Then two montba ago
my husband again saw the l\aJ1le figure. Had we heard the reporta of the
neighbourhood, imagination might have mialed us both in hearingand seeing.
The second time my husband saw her she was standing further from the bed,
and a bright light danced over the wall in which she seemed to figure twice.
He has been awoke by lOme hand on his head as if playing with his hair, and,
the room being dark, we heard as if lOme one waa walking with creaking
s11oes.
We are singularly free from ghostly fear. We have no one sleeping in
the house, but the cook, her husband, and the groom. No eft'ortof imagina-
tion could wake our stout old cook. The apparition as what my huaband
saw and what the gardener described, was a alight delicate figure; both ...y
they would know her anywhere. I will answer any questions. ... ... ...
Our parlour-maid sleepi at home; she would not sleep in this house if it.
was given to her.
F-- Hall, 2na Marcil-, 1883.
DBAR SIR,-Many causes have prevented my answering your letter
earlier; we have had much sicknell. You wish to know-
lit. If we have seen or heard anything since the date of my letter.
Two keepen and a policeman looking for poachers, passed through our
garden about. half-put 8 one evening, the lat.ter end of January, and
they told our cook that lOme one in a light dress moved before them, and waa
lost at the bottoll1 of IOnle steps. I asked them ifit waa a woman; they said
it waa too dark to distinguish anything but a moving figure in a light coat.
or dress. The men thought it was lOme one setting _l'OI; but no one in
this neighbourhood would venture into our garden after dark.
2nd. My husband ligns this letter.
3m. The gardener cannot speak any English. He is well-known &I a
religious man, and would not tell a falsehood.
Charles Jones saw a woman in a light dress walking before him in our
garden; be loot sight of her at the bottom of lOme stella. He told his wife
to see if any of the ladies were out, and Ihe immediately went to the
drawing-room and inquired. All were in; none had been out. He was
looking for lOme tools one evening, and saw the same figure standing by him.
One night, by himself in tile kitchen, he again saw her, and another night in
his bedroom. Hough, now living with a gentleman at Brlxton, and who
lived tllrCe-and-a-half years with me, a mOlt respectable man, told me twice
Digitized by Google
Dec.,I885.] JOfIl'1lalof Society/or PsgcMcal RusarcA. 136
he 11'&1 awoke by the ume figure. Mr. B-- waa talking to me, and turning
roond he awa figure by the bed. He baa good Bight, is 32 yeaI'll of age, and
was qtlit~ tgnona,1t of any story respecting this apparition. I cannot hear of
uylegend. The old people cannot speak English, or they may throw some
light on the subjectwhich baa been talked of for YeaI'll. The owner ... ... ...
would be moat indignant were we to injure her house by mentioning
loch a thing. After her days it would make no dilference.-Faithfully
yours, AlOiA. A.."fD CIURLBS E. B-.
F- BALL.
On ThUJ'llday, January 10th, 18M, I went by appointment to see Edwin
Hough, now residing at 330, Brixton Road, S.W. He is an intelligent manp
writes a good letter, and told his story clearly.
He informed me that he should regard Mrs. B- aa a good witneas. He
had lived with Mr. and Mn. B-previoully, and went with them to F--
Hall, arriving there in September, 1881, a fortnight later tll&ll they did. In
October, 1882, he left their service.
E. R. 'PEASE.
I had been coacIunan for some yeaI'll to Mrs. B--, and in September,
1881, IlI'ent with the family to this place, where I remained till October,
1882.
On t~o occaaiona I was awakened by feeling the I)reBlure of a cold hand.
first on my shoulder, and then on my head. Looking up, on each occasion I
laW' the figure of a woman stauding looking at me. She was of medium
height, dreaaed in light garmenta, perhaps cream coloured, not a "print."
made like a dressing-gown, with a girdle or waist-band. She seemed to be
about 30 yean old; she had a pleasant rather thin face, and a .. wild ,.
expreaaion. I tried to apeak to her, but failed to do BO, and she moved away
and vanished. I was not frightened, but agitated, and lay awake the rest of
the night. On each occasion the moon was full, and this is the UlUal time
for the appearances. She made no noise, nor was any light apparent. Having
heard of the ghost, I at once knew what it was. The two appearanc~s were
not in tbe IIIlme room, and one was more dilltinct than the other, but in other
respects they were aimilar.
I have heard noi_ of a person walking, and loud bangs as of a hammer.
I knoW' Charlea Jonea, who baa often seen the ghost, and. have heard him
and others apeak of it.
This is to certify that the above statement made by me is true in every
respect. EDWIN HOUGH,
Late Coachman at F-- Ball.
From Mrs. B--.
Janllal7l10t11, 18M.
Since writing to you Mr. B- all' the aPI>Britioll sitting beaide him in
bed. He had closed his book and was turning round to a1eep-a bright fire
burning-whan he saw this figure by his side. He looked steadily at her,
noticing her peculiar head-gear; after putting his head under the bed-clothea
for lOme minutes he found she was gone.
1can tell many very ouriOUl and intereating things on this subject, but
c:annot do so in.writing.
Digitized by Google
1!J6 Jom'nal qf Society for P8!/clu'cal Re8earcll. [Dec., 1881\.
n.II.-163. B--FIELJl8.
I. Accolmt written by Mrs. H., Ilk C.
In the year 1877, my mother, the widow of Admiral R. C., with
her two daughtera, went to live at a plaoo called " B--fields "
... ... .. in the leaae.... ... .. It was an old house, 1611
cut somewhere in the roof. The rent seemed extraordinarily small-£80 3
year with taxes-especially aa there wero about seven acres of fine grasa
fields.... * •
After they were settled and a little building done and a great deal of
money spent-the lease waafor 7, 14, 21 yoara-I heard a whisper that the
house waa hauntod.
I knew a young lawyer, Mr. S., who had managed all the busin08l of
B--fields, and I asked him to dinner to question him. He said a black
figure haunted the house, that he had seen it, and that it appeared only in
tIle months of November and January. I was very angry at his telling my
sister, '111"'0 had to iil'fl thef'~, this, and I tried to perauade myself and her it
Wal all a giddy young man's invention.
The following Christmas, 1877, I went to stay at B--fields ; the house
had been painted and papered with the most cheerful tints, the weather
aunny, sparkling with hoar frost; we were a merry party. It didn't seem
the least like a haunted place, and ghosts seemed 'Iuite impo88ible.
. When the month of .Januarycame I remembered the story, and I confeas
I peeped aboutin a great fright, expecting lOme awful shape in every fold of
drapery, every corner, every shadow; but 10 days paued, the whole month
paased, and I made up my mind it waa all nonsense, and I had completely
jorgotunit. One night, the last of January, I waa coming out of lily room
to wish my mother good-night in her room, near. It waa nearly 11, thr.
landing on which my door opened waa lit with two large spirit lamps, flooded
with light. Opposite to me, against UI~ ~riyhtly litup lIIall, stood a huge
black figure. It is difficult to describe, it waa largtr tJ141~ Zife, almost touched
the ceiling, an a Ic/nUy tJtijf thing, covered with black mantle over head and
all ; I could see no face. I felt aa if it warned me away : don't come near,
don't touch me !! I did not feel tl~ lta4t fear, only a IOrt of breathless
surprise, an intense anxiety to look at it before it was gone. While I looked
one might have counted 20 ; itdisappeared from the feet upwards, nnd was
gone into the air. I could see again the light wall, and the pictures that had
~ell hidden by the huge, solid black figure.
I did not feel the least aIra.id. I passed the place where it had swod,
went to my mother's room, talked to her a little. I only felt I must tell no
one ; but when I got to my room a terror fell uJlon me. The maid slept in
the room, but I did not tell her anything. I thought they hare to lire htrt,
and if tIley know they will all run out of the house.
The next day I went on a "i.it to Mrs. S., W-- Hall , Shrewsbury. She
can testify to my telling her all this directly-of tIle nervous state I Will in,
could not be left alone, and for months I could not wear my black velvut dreII
Digitized by Google
Dec., J88ij.1 Jou,.IIaloj &eietU .for P8!1clu'callUaearcA. 137
(my favourite dreis, too) becauao it reminded me of the awful blackn8111 of
the figure. .
I have been to B--fielda many times lince, and often puaed the place
and wondered oould I have imagined it. There wa an angle in the wall neal'
t.hat made a sort of high-llhouldered shadow, but no-what I laW 'WU quite
in I di1I'erent place ; it hid the picture of the girl holdi,,!/ her hat on in UUl
1Diltd; it 'WU much bigger, black, quite different, and mnia1Uld. I mention
1hia only beca.1l88 I am 10 very anxious to be qilUe /lincere and accurate in thil
extraordinary story.
The following November, 1878, I went again to B--fieldl. I had till
then kept my resolution not to tell my family. I found the b01l88 much
~xcited-such an extraordinary thing had happened in nly sisterAnna'i roonl.
When the maid came in the morning the large looking-glau Wal thrown 011
the 8oof, her necklace, three rows of large jet beads, Walon the 8oor, broken
to pieces, IUId a lCent bottle; the chair on which her clothel were bung neatly,
over the back, had been knocked book into the grate, and her clothes were
half-way up the chimney! You will lay my lister might have done all this
in her sleep, but she had the peculiarity of being t.ucked very tightly in bed,
10 that she could not move without disarranging the bed-clothes. All wa
81Dooth and tight--ilhe appeared not to have stirred. A chair close to the
bed, with glua of water IUId very high candlestick, wa not moved. She
could not have gotout of bed without pushing itaway. She is a remarkably
light sleeper, but had heard tlO IIOmld. My mother had been awake all night
t.ill6 o'clock, and had heard flO /loulid. The fall of the very large glua and
breaking the necklace must haveawakenedall-anyone would think so.
Knockinga were heard about the h01l88 and a peculiar IIhriek. The young
maida, who slept in a room inside the cook's room, laW a wonderfully bright
light through the door; they ICreanled to the cook, who did not answer.
• The next morning she told them Ihe had been held down in bed and could
not move or apeak.
Theile servants went away one after the other, giving no reason.
The noxt January, Hannah Lilley, ladysmaid, who had been with my
mother seven years, and wa much trusted by her, 'WU coming through a
lumber room about a dozen yards long, leading from the back staircase to the
front ataircaae landing (the one above where I had seen the figure); it was
the l&JDehour, just when all had gone to their rooDl8, 11 o'clock, and the
lsmJII were still lit and all (iuite light.
She laW a tall black figure leaning over the bannisters, looking down
upon the IItaircase and other landings; it had a long train trailing on tlle
3I'Ouud. She thought, .. It is only those girls (maida), playing me a trick !"
She came nearer and nearer, seeing the figure all the time; when ahe Wal
.quiteclose, it crouclUl(l along the bannisters, away from her, and hid behind a
curtain drawn over thedoor of JDy Bilt.er's room. She followed, drew aide
the curtain, and UUlre tOal tlOthiJig ! She opened the door into the room and
tAere WIU IWU"'l9, only my little listeraitting by the fire reading her book of
devotioDl, undisturbed and peaceful. She aid to Lilley, .. Why do you
Digitized by GcfogIe
138 Journal qf &cietlllor P81JchicalResearch. [Dea., 11l8.~.
llhake 110 7are you cold ?" Lilley could not tell her j like me, me thought,
" H 1 tell, everyone_will run out of the hoUlle !"
The next morning, A1ao the IaBt day of January, the young hOUl8maid
(Ada), going to light the fire in my mother'lI room very early, II&W a taIl,
black figure atanding by my mter Anna'a door. When me came near it IIlid
along to the next room (my mother'II), and, as me thought, went in, but the
door was looked as Ullual. At breakfast Ada !laid to Lilley, who was a very
tall woman," How early you were up thia morning; it mUllt have been you
1 all' at the door of MrII. C.'II room, and 1 thought you went in, but when I
got there the door was locked." Thill made Lilley feel me had Been it.
too.
My eldest sister is an aasooiate sister of All Saints' Home. She told her
conf8lllOr, one of the Cowley Fathers (I think Father B.), abeut this
" appearance." He aid that perhaps it was IIOme poor lIu1Fering
creature, and aid, "H y"n see it try not to be afraid, but ask it if you
caDMlp it."
One evening, after dinner, Henrietta was sitting in the drawing-room
whex-..Ite could see through the door into the hall. My mother WAIl sitting
in anotherpart where me could not see through the door, playing bezique
with my brother. She all' Henrietta starillg with a fixed and terrified look
through the door, and called out, " What is the matter 7what do you see r'
My mter did notanswer, and went out of the room. The next morning she
Aid, "Mother, 1aB~ night! saw that mysterious thing j it passed the door
with a long train. I thought of what Father B. !laid, and followed it,
and when it got to the piano it vanished."
My mother spoke to Mr. E., of St. Mary's, connected with * .. *
about it in my prelOnce, soon after, being very uneasy, and told him of H.'s
fixed look aud what me aid the next morning.
Mary F.' II Story.
Christmas, 1880, I took Mary F. with me to B--fields. She IIlept. in
my room. I mould describe her as a person very straightforward, rather
too fond of the plain and unpleasant truth!! (if that is possible). She had
lived 19 years with .. * * On Christmas morning we all got up
to the early celebration. I noticed Mrs. F. was pale and put out. A few
days afterwards ahe told me she had been 110 frightened I She did not go to
sleep directly, but was wide awake (I was asleep), when me was lltartled by
a brilliant light in the room, she all' like a chandelier or candlestick, with
drops of crystal light, 110 bright, like the light of 40 CGtwllu. It paaaed through
the room, though ahe all' no one carrying it. Then out of a great cupboard
in the wall came a black figure with a IIOrt of hood and long black pleated
train hanging from the very high moulders. (It is curioull that in the lillage
the lltory is it 11&11 '10 head; we nono of 118 can say, only all apeak of the
hunched-up shoulders.) It ran eagerly almost into the light, then beth
paaaed through the looked door and were gone.
Thill room·was certainly peculiar. One evening 1 W&l atanding by the
fire, and lIomething fell from the ceiling, and went craih into the fellder.
Mrs. F. and I, beth much startled. ooked everywhere, but cfmZdjilld,loU.ing.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1885.] Jourlltll 01 SocietU.for p'.'IcAical ReuarcA. 139
Another time I wanted to be quiet, and locked my door. Something came
and rattled at the lock, and shook the door 110 11iolMtly that when I opened
it my mother bad come CJut of her room, and aaid, "What on earth ia that
&baking your door 7". The aervants were all downstairs at their tea. A
blow on the ceiling 8B if it mutt cra.tlh through. It W8B under the roof, and
it could not be accounted for. My aiater Henrietta, whoae room it W8B, says
what ahe suft'ered there from terror no words can tell. Something uaed to
/ll4mp at the foot of her bed 'lJWkntly, and a dreadful voice screech her name
in her ear. She W8B 80 good. She bore it all rather than the mother should
be diatreued.
The night we were at the 8-- (hunt) ball, Lilley I&W a huge man'. hand
come from behind t.he screen. She looked behind. There W8B nothing.
Some six or aeven of the aervants were round the fire together. They all
h«Jrd a voice call Lilley three timell. They II8&1'Ched-nothing to be found.
Aa BOOn &I they went. back they heard the voice again.
The story ia nearly over now. In 1882, November, we lost our sweet
mother. All W8B broken up, and the family _ttered. I went to London
with my brother after all the BOrroW and aritation; and my aiatel'll were to
follow with the companion, Mias J., &I BOOn 8B poaible. Henrietta W8B
coming to dinner a few days after, and palling Anna'a room ahe I&W the
dreadful figure standing by her bed. Tall, black, taller than life, nearly
touching the ceiling. She could not go in, and ahe Jairly fled. Something
made her look back. She made quite nre to herMllJ that 1111l Bate it. Yea, and
ahe I&W it reflected in the glus-the great tall black figure.
* * * •
Last aummer, at Malvern, I lUet Mi.. H. She belongs to that part of
if if * She told me the hoUle, B-fielda, W8B always known to
be haunted, and that the people who lived there before us bad conatantly
seen it. She told me this before ahe knew I had been there. I said I am
very glad, for lOme of my family I&y that I in1Jented the ghost, and that if I
hadn't seen it and put it into everybody's head, it would never have appeared
at all.
R.M.T.H.
FefmcaJlI, IS1W.
II. From MI'II. H.
March ~it1••
I have not been able before to aend you the three encloaed atatements,
they seem a little bald by the side of the story they each told me at tile
time, and which I related, I believe, quite accurately. Hannah Lilley and
Mrs. F-- would find writing a .tatemt"t an e1t'0rt, and not noting down
little details, which in speaking they would be proftue with. But you will
see that tho facts arll substantially the ume.
(Signed) E. M. T. H.
P.S.-I ought to exphin that Hannah Lilley ia now Mn. MilIa, having
married a friend'a butler, also that my aecond siater baa been out of health,
but ia now quite restored.
III. From MiM H. R. C., * * March'1llth.
In the year 1880, I W&l living at B-fielda Witll my mother, and one
evening the maid Lilley told me abe I&W a black figQre, which wu aupposed
Digitized by Google
140 JO,.,./lal fir &cietu for PlIllclU.cnl R~lIt'tIl·ch. [Dec.. 1!!85.
to haunt the bouse. standing outside my bedroom door. It waa mucb on my
mind. 10 I apoke to Father B-- about it. He told me "If I .w it, to
apeak to it. aa it waa an unhappy apirit," he aupposed, "that W'aIlted to be
apoken to." One evening, about the middle of January. I waa sitting ill
the drawing.room opposite tbe door opening into the hall. when I 1I&W a long
black train slowly paIS along RI if the figure had just paaaed and .....
dragging the train after it. I remembered what Father B-- said, and
got up and looked out into the hall, but it was gone. My mother called out
to me: "What are you looking at1" I did not tell her then for fear
of frightening my brotller. but the next morning I told her what I had
seen.
In December. 1882, after my dear mother'a death, I was running down'
stairs about 7.30, being late for dinner; and paasing my siater'a room I saw
through the open door a taU black figure by the bed, "cry tall, very straight,
all black. I did not dare go into the room, but turning tile comer. looking
baclc, I saw it reflected in the glaaa. I fr,qumUy heard thTU Ma"!1 stamps.
like a heavy boot, Qlttaide my bedroom door; and it uaed to wake me up out
of myaleep at all bours in the night. atamping in my room by the window.
A large cupboard I frequently locked ODeT night used to be found b,,,.opeu
in the moming. Also I heard a fierce acreech in my ear one night, ,,"hich
called me by my name OUIle times. am'" drea4Jul unearthly voice.
HENRIB'l"l'.l R. C.
IV. From Ml... F.
MareT. 23rd.
Mary F. presents her (luty to Mrs. H., and I beg to say that I 11'811 willi
Mrs. H. in Mrs. C.'s house ali B--fielda. I was sleeping in the same bed-
room as Mrs. H., and onenight alter Mrs. H. had gone to bed. I saw a lady
dreaaed in black, and a bright Jiaht, like 40 candles, come from the wall and
walk acroaa the room, and v80lUabed under the door. Before I could recover
my fright the lady in black and .the bright lights had vanished under the
door, and the room WRI in darkneaa. One evening I WIUI in the kitchen with
four of the aervant•• and we all heard a voice calling Lilley aeveral times, on
the back atairS. Knowing that the family had all (lOne out, me and l\lary
went and aearcbed the houae. but we found all the windows and doors f&at.
and.only us five aervants in the house at the time. I do remember IOme-
thing falling from the ceiling into the fender, one evening in your bedroom,
but you nor me could find anything in tho fen:ler. I often heard footsteps
on the top landing, when I have been there alone. I believe the houae was
haunted.
MARY F--.
V. Fromllrs. Hannah Milla (",ee Lilley).
Mm-M 26t1~, 1884.
MADul,-In answer to your letter, I have written all out as well as I
can remember. I do not remember the date. If you ha"e dear Mrs. C.'a
old diary- when we told her anything, ahe used to l)ut it down. It waa all
very atrange at B-fielda ; we uaed k hear auch noiaea. I remember once I
Will sleeping in dear Mrs. Co'a room. She suddenly called me and asked me
if I had not been standing by her bedside. I had nevtll' been up. I IOlDe-
times thought it was the figure. You will remembel'Mary, that WlUI ~lour-
Digitized by GOogle
Dee., 1885.] Jo"rnal of Society.tO',. Psychical Re8ea,.cA. 141
maid at B--fielda. three years. She Wled to aleep in your room, t.he apare
room. She baa been ataying with me. She and I 11''' talking about it. She
told me there 11'''auch noises in the room,and one night you could not sleep,
and got up, looked all round the room. After you 11''' in bed, ahe could not
aleep. Something came and pulled all the clothea off her (I think ahe told
me she was afraid to tell yuu). 11r.ry and Ada 11''' sleeping in their own
room; they both 11'''awoke by the noise; they both saw a light under the
door and expected to see someone go in. No one went or knew anything
about it. The looking-glaaa, too. being put under Misa Anna'a dreaaing-
table, too; that 11'''odd. I can't believe Misa Anna did it.
It 1I'lUI about 10 o'clock at night, in the month of November, 1880, I 11'''
going through a long paaaage-room facing Mias C.'a room door. Standing by
the door I 111\11' a long black figure with a plain long akirt 011. I never saw
the head; it seemed to me to be looking over the atain or bannisters; it
suddenly disappeared.
On another evening 1 11''' going into Misa Anna'a room, the fire was
buming brightly; 1 had no light in my hand; the door 11''' open; the bed
wu behind the door, at tbe side a screen. When I got to the door 1 saw a
hand come round the screen, only the hand, the fingen long and white.
The same evening, the ladies were all out, we was all at aupper when we
heard some one call Lilley, quite loud. Two of us got up to see. I quite I
expected. to see the front door open. It 11'''all faat, and no one came home
for an hour after. I have often heanl my name called when no one baa been
there, and heard the rustle of some one coming-no footateps.
H. MILLS,
Maid to the late Mn. R. C.
G. I1.~28.
From Mr. R. Gibson.
Limerick, 9U~ Frbruary, 1884,.
Before 1 do .. you request, let me say I,am a Free-muon since 1866, anel
ODe who got a good deal ot oredit at his initiation for perfect coolneaa, and
wall made muter of his lodge in 1869, and very few Masona can say that they
were muter of a lodgo three years after being initiated. Next I am a man
who rides riraig1&t to hounda, and have done so for put 26 years, and am well
known here and in Cork .. a man who can ride and drive any sort of horae
that 11''' ever foaled. This Dot .. a bout at all, but aimply to ahow you that
God, ill His goodneaa, haa endowed me with pretty atrong nerves. I could
give you a score of other proofa from my life that election crowds, atrikes of
workmen who aw/)re to kill me, Land League threata, &c., &c., never could
turn me a hair'a breadth from what I considered I had a right to do; my
answer always being, .. You may kill me, that is auy enough, but you can't
frighten me for I have no fear of death."
In spite of all thia, I am going to tell you a story that would be fitter for
a fanciful girl to tell than for a teetotaller of many years' atanding to pen.
I am a bad hand at trying to draw, but I have done my beat to give you
the ground plan of the cottage. The - marks where the doors were. There
11''' no upstairs, except over the kitchen.
Before I was married ill 1866, my servant man and I lived alone in the
~. '
Digitized by Google
142 JOlmUlI qf 8oc~tg for PIIIJC"icnl ReMarcIL. [Dec., 1f185,
One night, when I waa out at a Muonic dinner, the man waa standing at
the small gate, waiting for my return. He waa quietIy smoking; the time
waa about 1 a.m. ; he declares he looked up RIld down the road and no one
waa in sight; the next moment a man walked in through the gar.eway,paasing
right through my servant man, who immediately dropped down fainting.
Verr shortly after I WRII married, a single sharp rap used to come on the
parlour door at some time during the evening, it might be 8 p.m. one
night, and 11 p.m. next; no regularity of time at all ; and sometimes it would
come every night in succession for a week, or more, and then it might be &
week, or only a couple of nighta before it came again. At fint I used to
jump up, open the door, find nothing; search the whole cottage for a cause,
always fail to find any clue whatever; then I stopped bothering about it, and
used to just call out" Come in," and take no fnrther notice. The rap
'UlWT CIUIle more than once during the night.
We slept in the bedroom next the parlow·. I have marked where the
bedstead stood, and marked the foot of the bedstead. On that bedroom floor
waa a very thick old carpet, which made the door very difficult to open, in
fact, it never used to b& open more than IW angle of 45 degrees ; you
could not pllsh it open to a right angle at all. One night I had been ,·ery
sound asleep; suddenly without any cause, I awoke, as broad awake aa ever I
waa in my whole life ; the thought just had time to f1uh through my mind,
.' This is very queer,what has awakened me like this 1" when the handleof the
door Wall tumed,and the door flew open to it,fu~lll:mnt; quick aa it happened,
I waa out of bed, and out through that doorway almost before the door bad
ceased to tum on ita hinges. There Wall nothing to be seen; I ~ down
the hall into the kitchen ; the servant Wall snoring in her room; my brotIler-
in-law Wall so fast aaleep in the bedroom next mine that my going in did not
disturb him. I tried the three doors, they were faat locked, so'waa' the
drawing-room door, and there waa no one in the parlour, w.c., or greenhouse.
I gave up the riddle, and went back to my room and had a regular hard job to
shut the door. When I got into bed my wife aaked, "What caused the door to
open 1" I replied, "I can't tell; but when did you wake 1" ''The moment
before the door opened, and I think I allould ha,·s died with fright, only you
were so quick out of bed," was the reply.
I had a habit of smoking before going to bed; I used to stand at the
comer of the greenhouse, where I have put a mark,* and I used to stand
my book against a flower-pot on one allelf of the flower-stand, and my candle
on the allelf above, and so read and:smoke. One fine lightsome night, I saw
a man coolly walk put, as if going for the coach-house door. I darted for the
door at the end of the greenhouse; it was lucked, and took a couple of
seconds to open. When I got out there was 110 0118 there; I ran into the
kitchen and acullery; no one visible but the sen'ant ; I took down tIle keys
of the coach-house, and of the old mill, took my candle and carefully ex-
amined both places ; could find no one.
I Wall disgusted; I wQnt in fairly~furious ; told my wife, and vowed if I
~ught whoever waa up to those pranks, 1 would give him six months' in
hospital. I watched night after night in the II&Dle place, taking good care
• A plan accompanied this communicatiOll.-E. G.
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1M')..) Journal qf 8ociet!l.for P8!1c"ical &Marc". 143
alway. to have the door on the latcla. and I can't tell you how often I saw
that man walk in there, coolly 88 you please, and yet when I got out there
wano one.
One clay, in the middle of the day, my wife and the aervant were atand-
ing near my brother-in-law'a bedroom door, aettling IOmething about clothes
for the WIIh, I think, and my brother-in-law stepped to lais room door with
BOIDething in his hand ; 88 he did, the aervant's ey.. dilated in horror, abe
tumed white as a sheet, and gasped out, "Oh Muter Lill, he is after walk-
ing in through you." Her terror W88 BO evident that ahe quite frightened
the others for a couple of momenta; then my wife demanded what she
meant 1 and the girl gasped out, "A man, ma'am; a. man walked right into
Haater Lill's room; right through Muter Lill as he stood in the door-
way."
As we could make neither head nor tail of it, we left the place shortly
after, as it waa not nice to have people going about your place that you cou1d
not collar and tum out. Besides, the whole thing I88med 80 very absurd
and without any ahow of reason about it.
The place puaed then to -- and I never heard of his l88ing any
&pirita •
Then another man got the place by purchase, pulled down the old mill.
aDd baa builta very nU:e modem hoUle there, and I have not heard his ever
being troubled either, 10, ofconne, 99 people out of every 100 would dub me
aaeither a fanciful fool or an outlawed liar.
The only anawer I can give is, why don't I fancy such things anywhere
elae 1 and why can't I invent lies about other placea if I could about that 1
They are neitherfancies nor Iiea, and they were ping on for about two yea,..
_ a-1IIIlJ; 80 I had a fair chance of finding out who ever 11'88 trying it on if
it .... a trick. H it W88 a trick, I fail to 188 what it 11'88 done for.
R. GIBSON.
In &IlIIwer to inquiries, Mr. GibBon says :-
The servant girl is dead longago, and my poor wife baa alao paaaed away,
and I have entirely loat sight of the aervant man; he left me yeara ago.
Theae things happened in 1866 and 1867. Since I left the Windmill Cottage
I have never heard or aeen anything that could not be accounted for; but
once, before I came to Limerick, I met, or fancied I met, a person whom I
knew to be long dead. But there 11'88 lome reason for that-there was none
about the cottage business.
G. 11.--308.
From Mias Rosa Frizelle, 2, The Terrace, Farquhar Road, Upper Norwood.
May 12th, 18M.
My grandmother, in the winter of 1879, took apartmenta in a houae in
London. She had the drawing.room floor, consisting of two large rooms
and a small dreaaing.room, in which I slept when I joined the family later.
This room opened on to the flat roof of the basemont offices. On Monday,
21It December, I went out shopping, retuming home about' o'clock, while
Itill quite daylight. Going towards my room, I noticed on the stairs the
fipre of an old and feeble woman, dressed in black, with grey ahawl and
poke bonnet. I 1&11' her come downstairs. At the foot our clothes bruahed,
there wu 10 little apace. She went along a passage which overlooks the
Digitized by Google
144 JONrtUJl Qf &ciety .for PS.'1cliical Re~Qrc". [Dec.. l.8!I6.
tiled hall, and down another stairway. Up this a maid W&I coming with a
tray; they puaoo. and suddenly the old woman vaniahed. Much astonished.
I questioned the maid, who totally denied haring seen anyone. By this time
I was in the hall. The hall-door had poeitively not opened. The maid,
fearing burglars, had instituted a grand search, with no l'9IIult. Although in
constant fear of doing 10, I did not see the old woman again. In Arril we
left. Then I learned that I was not the only one who had _n .. her," for
previous to my joining the family the nurse had two or three times been
terrified by the appearance of IOmething identical in the nursery; allO, that.
my aunt and grandmother, who slept in the room adjoining mine, had fre-
'luentlybeen disturbed by the lOund of footsteps crouing and recroeaing the
room, a windoW' being then opened, more footsteps and a door hastily cl~
in a part of the room where the door had been blocked up (a fact not then
known). A medical man, and rtry IlCeptical, who once witnellled this, aaid
be never "before had felt inclined to admit the R1lpernatura.l." At an after-
noon tea, several months later, a gentleman volunteered lOme curious
iniormation to me, rellpecting friends of his who had taken apartmenta
in the very same IItreet as we had. They left because of an old woman who
appeared on the stairs. I never heard as a poeitive fact that the hoWle
was the same, but it was at the same end of the Itreet. Unfortunately, I
have never succeeded in identifying this gentleman, though mOllt anxioUi
to do 10.
Whatever occurred in this house evidently took place on tlle flat roof I
.have alluded to, and pOIIIibly in the month of December.
The nurse was Minna Horlook; she has left us. Mias N.'s servant we
only knew as Gertrude; IIhe intended leaving to be married.
ROSA FRIZELLE.
[The address of the house and the names of the ladies who keep it have
been given to me.-E. G.]
In answer to inquiries, Mias Frizelle aaye :-
2, The Terrace, Farqnl1ar Road, Upper Norwood.
JtltW1 5th.
Sm,-The statement already sent you was a firat-hand statement, ina&-
much as only the handwriting was mine, the words being the actual worda.
used by my aunt. However, the enclosed has been taken down by me from
the aunt who had tho greatest experience of the noises, and signed by her ;
if needful her mother could give the same testimony.
Unfortunately the "friend" is quite unknown to any of us, even his
name is doubtful, but probably ,vas "Cox." Our conversation was the
briefest pOIIIible; the acquaintance who introduced me has left Upper
Norwood lOme time, therefore, it is impo&libk to even identify him. So far
&I I can remember the house was described to me as being on the left-band
aide, between -- Road and the church, one of the large hOI18ell. The
gentleman was not aware of my experiences, and as I had been forbidden to
mention the subjoot and fearing ridicule, I let the matter rest until it is now
too late for evidence from that quarter. It was only a few houra previously
to my statement being written that I became aware of our nurae having
previously seen what I aaw. I can most 101emnly declare I did see what I
have described, and that no idea of anything" uncanny," in connection witlli
gitized by (.oogI
'-' l885.J Jour1lll101 Society .for P'!lMical RtllNIrcII. 145
that houae, had croeaed my brain. I waa in the best health and Ipirits, and
Unging an air from .. Pinafore," when it occurred. R. FBlZBLLE.
The medical gentleman'l testimony is unobtainable, aa he died 15 months
ago. He would have been a moat valuable witneaa, aa far aa the noiaea
were concemed; for I believe he heard them frequently, and waa much
puzzled by them. R. FBlZu.LE.
During our reaidenee in -- Street, I beanl frequently, from 11
o'clock to 12 o'clock. footstel)I, as if of an a~itated pel'8On, accompanied by
heavy sighs. a window being opened and then Ihut; 810wlyand gently the.
footsteps alwlIfB died away in one comer of the room, where it afterwanl&
tranapired there had been a door. The noise of a woman'l garments.
rustling waa alao heard, and apparently there were two pel'8OJl8., one followillg
&he other. 1 had no previous luspicion of luch a thing.
(Signed) ROSIE DARUCOT'l'.
ELIZA. DARRA.cOTr.
The above are the aignaturea of my grandmother and her daughter. '1'11&
IIlIlIt "noisy" night was the 14th December. 1879. I have written this
from dictation. R. FBIZELLE.
G. IL-388.
From Mn. Preston, Grammar School. Chester.
September 13th. 1883.
Early in the year 1872 my husband and myself, with our only child, a
boy of two yean old, were reliding in a town of N. Wales. A part of tht!
001118 we occupied waa very old, and the rooms we chiefly used were in that
part.. I must premise by saying that, when we went to the houae, nothing
had been told us of any noiaea heard in it, nor did there aeem to be any Itury
or traditionattached to the place. About March, in 1872, our nurse grew very
DO"OUS; repeatedly abe aaaerted that her Ileep was disturbed by the
appearances of sometimes a woman and child, sometimes two women. She.
llept with the hoy in a large room (near to our bedroom), which was
divided by .. wooden partition into a day and night nursery. One Ipring
evening, my husband and 1 came home about 6.30 p.m., and found the.
IlerVlnts oonaideJably excited. The nurse had gone to the kitchen tea about
op.m., leaving our boy with a little under-nurse of 16. She ltated that,
coming with her charge out of the night nursery, Ihe had aeen sitting on th&
rug in front of the fire a woman in white, with long black hair, moaning and
lObbing; the girl caught up the child and rushed down in terror to the-
kitchen. It W8I broad da,light. This ended the troubles of that fint year,
bat the head-nuree fell into luch bad health that her mind became affected.
lIDd ahe had to go away for lOme months. After this laat affair we made.
another nursery. All this time we sincerely believed that some of the Welsh
lenants who had been dismiaaed had been playing tricks on the Engliah girla,
and that one or two Welah women, Itill in the houae, were in oo1Iuaion with
them. Strangetoaay, we were never troubled with either lights or noiaea
from the beginningof June to the end of the year.
The next distinct incident that I call to nlind oocurred in the year·
18i3, about Mar. I waa away from home, and having to engase a sewing
maid, I found one to luit.e in Shrewabury, and sent her home a few dar•.
Digitized by Google
146 Jour/wi qf &Cittg lor P,uchical Rellearch. [Dec., 1885.
before I retumoo myself. I reCtlived a few day8 after a letter from my bill-
band, I&ying that the new maid had arrived. He WRS awakened by aabriek
between 11 and 12 p.m., and on getting up foun(1 the poor girl in a 8tate of
terror, declaring that she had seen, 8tanding between her bell and the
window, the figures of a man and woman. She was IIleeping in the room
that had been the old night-nursery. She had fastened the only door in the
room, which was a very 8mall one and without a firepln.ce. The door opt'ued
into the day-nursery, and being next to our bedroom W&8 con\"enient. She
solemnly 888Ured me that 8he had heard nothing ahout the former occur-
rence8 in the roOI11.
Again the interval of peace came, and we almost furgot the matter, when
1874 began. Up to this time I had been exempt from these troubles, and
thought but lightly of the 8ubject. One day in MaTCh I had been 8uffering
from a bad attack of neuralgia. I went to bed BOOn after 10 p.m., but could
not sleep from the pain. I I&t up in bed waiting ft.8 patiently as I could for
the pain to abate. Soon after the church clock tolled the quarter after mid-
night, I felt a 8trange shudder come over me, and though all my faculties
were alert I could not move. I heard a knocking at the door of the old
nursery, repeated three time8, and a voice calling aloud for help. The call
was repeated se"eral times, yet I could not stretch out a finger to wake my
hU8band, or find any voice to speak to him, I !leemed to be in a trance; then
another 8hudder came over me and I W88 free, and roused my husband, who
got up and searched the house. I ought to I&y that I had taken no opiate,
oar, in fact, anything to eat or drink Bince our dinner that evening I believe
that I had rubbed a few drops of" Bunter's Nervine" on my teeth, but that
W88 all.
The May succeeding I W88 again alarmed, but in a different manner. One
oaf the last Sundays afrer Easter, I think it W88,_t any rate, about the third
in May-I had been til evening church in company with my husband and R
friend of his, amI l'etumed home to suppor about 8 p.m. ; it W88 broad day-
light, the windows of our dining-room open, tea on the table. I W88 standing
with my back to one \vindow, facing the open door, just taking offmy bonnet,
our friend W&8 standing by the fireplace, when I was conscious of a woman's
figure standing in the doorway. I just heard my friend 88Y, .. What's the
matter, Mrs. --, you look 88 if you 88wa ghost 1" and he came to my
.side, and the figure vanished away. When I could speak, 1 left the room,
and called my husb&nd, and described the appearance of the figure to him.
The woman was very IIhort, and thick set"not stout, dark hair, and a very
:flat head ; the hair grew in a peak. on the forehead: the dress Wft.8 of a greyish
green, the style reminded me of the way myoId nurse wore her dreases.
long-waisted, gatherecl in a peak. and a short full skirt. Tllis W88 the last
.experience I underwent, and 8hortly after we left the neigllbourhood. There
were lDany minor alarms among Bervants and boys during these years, but
tlae ODe I have related I can vouch for tl\e truth of.
G. PIumoN.
This account is both substantially, and, 80 far 88 lDyown memory of
parti(lulara goes, exactly correct.
GBORlIB PRESTON, M.A.,
Clerk in Holy OrderB.
Digitized by Google
n..,188&.] Jo,mUlI qf 801Mtulor P8]Jcllical RtRMIOC". 141
G. 11.--427.
From Ml'B. Mackenzie, Lamington House, Tain, R(lIIII-Bhire.
. J'I/II~ 18th, 1884.
Among my papel'B I have found a paper wMcb I Wl"Ute BOme 18years ago,
when I lived in the old Cutle. Since that tinle I have twice Been the "old
grey man." I left the house leven yeal'B ago, and tbe people who BUCCeeded
us there have been frightened away by the footstepa.-YoUl'B truly,
.J. W. MACKENZIE.
Al/glIlII, 1866.
In the North of Scotland is a houae built on the site "f a Bishop's Palace,
and fonning part of the house is an old tower, quite entire, and the ancient
vaults fonn the ba.aement story of the more modem mansion. The tower
and "aults are 8Upposed to have been built in'the 13t.h century. The house
has alway8 had the reputation of being haunted, and many, myself amongst
the nUlllber, can.tell of a footstep which is often heard, like the footstep of
an old man promenading along a paaaage at the top of the house.
The peasants in the neighbourhood, when asked to relate the story of
the haunted house, seem to Bhirk the question, amI their reply invariably
is, "Oh, it is an old grey man." Many families have reaided in the house,
and in almoet all of them could be found BOme one ,,'ho has either lecn or
heard IOmething. The footstep I have heard and shuddered at, but the
visible presence of the "grey man" I did not credit, when the following
fact. came to my knowledge, the truth ofwhich I can vouch fur.
The gentleman referred to in the following narmtive was one who had
never heard that the houle in which he wu at that time a visitor had the
reputation of being haunted ; moreove!". he Willi a decided IICtlptic u regarded
anything Bupernatural; he was Il Doctor of Divinity, and a man of high
clueical attainment..
This gentleman, u I have before remarked, was a villittlr in the haunted
house, and was a8IIigned the bedroom which report said wall the favourite
reeort of .. the grey man." Bef()~ retiring to rest not 1\ word of wanling,
either in joke or otherwise, wall lIaid about the l)()8llibility of anything
supernatural being aeen by our friend. This fact I wish to be undel'Btocxl
clearly, to abow that the Reverend Doctor'B imagination was in no way acted
upon.
After falling uleep he awoke with the feeling that lOme one was ill his
bedroom, and feeling a heavy weight on one aide of his bed. My friend Bat
up quite awake; of this he is sure, as he beard the clock vf t11e neighbouring
Cathedral strike the hour, and he also remarked that the wind wa.B high•.
Seated on the Bide of his bed was all old man, who be fil'Bt imagined must
bean old aenant, and he examined the figure closely ; it was the figure of an
old man, dreaaed in a thread-bare grey coat, with long white beard and hair,
the latter placed behind the ear, in u style one BOmetimes B888 in an old
picture. Motionleaa it sat for BOme minutes, when it l'08e, walked round by
the bottom of the bed, until reaching the wall beside the fire it tumIKl and
gued intently on my friend. Then. and not till then, did be imagine that
what ho beheld was anything 8upernatuml. The fiendish face aeemed ~
expreu the wont pa88ioll8 that could reach a tonnented loul, rendered still
more hideous u the dying firelight cast fitful shadOWB on it. The cbeat and
Digitized by Coogle
148 JOltr11ll1 of&Ci~t!l.for Ps.,!cltical &1ttI1'tJiI.
--- ------
anus leemed much out IIf proportion with the rest of the lxody, in fact the
upper portion seemed to denote tho frame of a giant, which W88 belied by
the small shrunken limbs. Spreading its huge hands on the wan. and atill
looking at the bed, it vanished, having been in the room for half-an-hour.
This my frilmd aacertained by consulting his watch.
It baa been alleged that persons who have seen a ghost are most chary of
speaking on the subject : this W88 the cue of the Reverend Doctor, who nut.
till months after"ants related the story 1 have given above, and he added
that no wealt.h would have tempted him to have slept another night in the
same room. Many tried to make the worthy divine confeaa that he miglet
ha,'e been mistaken, but his answer un"llriably WQ8, .. I never believed in
ghosts, but I could place my hand on my Bible and swear that I saw what I
have told you, and that. I WQ8 M conscious and 88 awake 88 I am at preaent:r
Since hearing of the above I made many inquiries, and succeeded in
hearing of lOme who had allO seen" grey man, but who W88 he 7 And what
did he want 1Imust confe.. I built many c1w1Uanx 87' E'J'fJ1P't, and felt sure
that in lOme turret or wall wouM be found a cheat of gold, plate, dazzling
jewels, and-a skeleton.
In a magazine published many yeal'll ago I have become acquainted with
tho history of the "Grey Man," the substance of which is 88 follows:-
In the 16th century, when the palace W88 in ita glory and a Bishop held
almost regal sway within ita walls, a Highland chieftain caused much dia-
turbance in the country, coming with his lawleaa band from his fortress in
the hillaand carrying off cattle, provender, in fact anything he could lay his
handaon.
The lKlUlUltry complained to the Bishop, and he, anning his retainel'll,
sent. them in pUl'lluit of the free-hooter, who W88 caught. in lOme Highland
glen and bl'OlIght in chains to the Bishop's palace. No fate waa thought t4»
cruel for one who had shown hillllelf 10 mereiJeu to others, and he was con-
demned to be confined in one of the vaults of the palace, chained by the neck
to the wall.
In this state he waa kept. for three Ye&l'll, when death put an end to his
8ufFerings, and his bonos were allowed to whiten in his prison hoWie. bound
by thechains which had defied the mighty chieftain's streng th.
No wonder then that after his death many alleged that they had seen
the robber chieftain's spirit haunting the scene of his degradation and miacry.
stealing along with ita fiendish face and revengeful eyea.
Yeal'll puaed on, and large parts of the palace falling to decay,
a new house was built. on the old '"aults, and attached to one of the towel8
of the Bishop'8 residence, and evon in the new house does the "Grey
Man" appear.
J. W. MAcXENZIB.
111 answer to inquiries, Ml'8. Mackenzie writes :-
J1Ine 23m, l~
My DEAR Sm,-The gentleman W88 my own uncle, the Rev. Dr. Gibson,
of Avocb, and a man beyond doubt, a moat truthful witneu. He did
not tell us what he had seen, but left our house very hurriedly nut day.
Several moatha after, he had a large gathering of people in his houe,
many of them clergmen, and aome talk there W88 about Spiritualism, w_
one gentleman aaid, "Doctor, I wonder you are not finding fault with tbiI
Digitized by Google
l)ec., l88U.] J(tUrnal qf Sockt//lor Psgcltica/ R"llearc". 149
talk, II you will not tolerate such things." The Doctor answered, .. 1 have
iluite altered my opinions," and related wl13t I have written to you in the MS.
Hie daughter came to visit me soon after, but alae! her father had died, but
*> impl'8lled WII ahe with what ahe had heard tJ13t sho repeated word for
word what her father had told her, and thia I l13vo done. The caatle ia
- Cutle, --, and I lived there almoet 19 yean. After we
left i~ ..ven years ago, it WII uninhabited until tho Duke of -- laid
out a good deal of money on it, and it ranks now aa a shooting lodge. Jt waa
taken by General Warrond. of the Bright Invern8ll, and Mrs. Warrond
WId U8 that ahe had been frightened with the feeling of BOrne one ill the
room with her, 80 much thatthey gave up the place in disgust. The Duke told
me that t.heWarronda had been terrified by what he called my gAoKt. I can
ooly 1&1 what my uncle said, .. I can lay my hand on my Bible Rnd swear
by the living God tl1at it is true." Of ooUI'I8 it would be better not
to publiah names, especially AB his Grace leta the caatJe; aa he haa
alnya been courteous to us I ahould not like to injure his intercats ill
lilly wsy. I was told that lut year a young man, a visitor, had begged
his bedroom to be changed, and he aeerued quite ill with fright, but I did
DOt know him, BO this i4 hearsay. When the foot.at.t'p WII .coming I heard
i~ first, or felt it, and would bid others listen; it gave rue a mOllt uncomfort-
able feeling, and when it paaaed me I felt as if I waa enveloped in a cold,
damp mist. We had at 18llt two other yisitors, who said they II&W the old
KNJ man, but they were ruuch disinclined to speak on the aubject. All old
lady, Ifra. Houstoun, told me that whell ahe WAB 0. girl, which must have
been fully 80 yean ago, she WII visiting in the caatle and that many a
time Ihe lay shivering with terror at hearing the footstep. My hUlband.
who is a aheriff'of the county, doea not believe in ghoets, but he baa heard
the footstep and followed it over the houae, thinking BOrne trick WAB being
played. I have noticed that a Scotch terrier pricked up its ean and followed
the ltepe, and I did BO alao. They seemed to lead us into a large room, and
the dog mUl'ed about, looked up in my face, and gave a howl. I waa once very
ill, in fact. at the point of death; a Highland 11UI'I8, who waa a long time
with me, told me that the figure came into the nuraery and bent over her.
She waa BO impreued that for years after, while in my service, she
alept with her Bible under her pillow !-Believe me, very truly yours,
J. W. MACKENZIE.
The tint time I II&W the "old grey man" waa on 0. fine Sunday in July,
about 6 o'olock in the evening. 1 wu paasing along a long lobby paat the
library, which had a window exactly 0ppollite the door, thus forming a croaa-
lightand making any figure in the room doubly visible. I stopped to lpeak,
thinking it W88 my husband, when the moat dreadful feeling came over me
U if my hee.rt had turned to ice. I stood powerleaa to move for some
minutee, staring at the figure, which waa seated at a table ill the middle of the
loom with ita anna crOII8ed on a desk. I II&W the grey coat, braaa buttonll,long
• Hr. Mackenzie oollfirma tbia, though lO8J>ticalllll to &D'y _"gboltly" caUIIE'. When
~ however he cannotgive &Dy explanation which will hold water. He talksof
lOOlIee!&te.; bat~ts that the noile mirde by them ooold DOt have _ed to move
about, IIId &lao that it is imJlOllllible that lOOtle slatellllhould have remained for years
IIIIDOticed &Del UDIIUeDde<l to.-E.G.
Digitized by Google
150 JOIII'/lai f!f Society .for P'1/Micnl &,earcA. (Dec.; 18115.
grey hair stuck behind the ears, grey WOl'lltod stockings; the Ihoes I did n~
notice tMtl as having buckles, but the legs were spread at length under the
table and the Ihoes were very CO&l'II8 highlow. A broad blue Scotch bonnet.
was on the head. When I recovered enough to stagger downstain I told
what I had seen. A search Willi made, but no one was found upeta.in, and
if anyone had played a trick they bad 110 way of getting out of the house
but by coming dowllstail'll. At the timo I had 110 thought of the ..grey
man," nor had we beeu talking of it in any way. Tho second time I ..w it
was in ea.rly sllring, February, I think. There was a concert in D--,
an amateur affair, and I sent all the servants to it, seeing dool'll locked and
the house cleared myself. My husband broughthis papel'll to the dining·room,
which was on the same flat or storey as the nursery where I intended sitting.
I Willi coming out of the dining.room door when I saw something grey go up
the staircase toWlln!S the drawing.room and library storey. 1 imagined at
til'llt, "How did I\nyone got back l" thinking it Willi one of the maids, when
the same feeling came over me as if my hea.rt had become ice, and I was
deathly oold. The staircase was well lighted and I diatinctly saw the same
grey figure and the same draM as my uncle had described, and I noticed the
light shining on the bl'lUll buttons and the metal shoe-buckles. I even ..'tI"
the rough wOl'llted stockings and noticed the very broad ribbing in them.
When the figure got to the top of two storeys every door and windO'tl"
banged and seemed to be shut with violence. I llad not called out to my
husband, as I wished to soe if I could make out where the tigure went to and
induce him to go after it. He hean! the noises I did, and remarked that
the servants must haveleft. wil\dows open, and that the wind must have risen.
I suggested he should go and close them, and he went upstairs but soon re-
turned, saying that every door and window was IIhut, and the night was clear
and calm. I then tol(l him what I had seen. The footstep is like that of
an old man with rathera shufBing gait, as if one foot was a little lame. I
wou1d not have occupied alolUl any room in the castle if I had got the whole
county of Sutherland as a reward. Often I have hoard the footstep come
!llong the p&l8&ge into my room, and I had always the same feeling, even in
wann weather, of being enyeloped in a cold damp nliBt, and I felt ill after
it, BO much BO that 1 used to say I felt I Ihould die if I ever met the grey man
again. I havt) no 1I101'e supel'lltition than any average Highlander. I have
never aeon any Spiritualism experiments, or any IMSance, in fact, I should
(lescribe myself as being .. a plain practical Scotch woman," who is rather
given to believe in BOrne dreams, and who has had BOme remarkable on8l,
and wllo is yery keenly alive to sight and BOund.
.T. W. MACKEXZIE.
Ml'II. Mackellllie thinks the til'llt appearallce to her occuITed about 1810,
and the second about 1872.
Ml'II. Mackellllie is known to me; a good witnCIB. The til'llt account
WI\8 writtell before she hCl'llelf saw the tigure.-E. GURNBY.
Lamington Houao, Tain, 8t1a July, 1884.
I have neyer had. beforo or since, an hallucination of any kind, or seen
anything that could be called a ghoat.-(Signed) J. W. MACKENZIB.
Digitized by Google
Dec., l885.] JO'IrIUlI of &C;,t!l/M' PBgcJ.ical &uarcl., 151
CORRESPONDENCE.
SLATE·WRITING.
I have had IIOUle eight .eanees with Mr. Eglinton, the medium, and.
obtained tolerably II&tisfactory resulta at four out of the series. The lut
hrG were negative. On all these occaaiuns I took with me my folding-alate,
IIICUred by a brau (tadlock. On one occaaion I obtained writing in this alate.
At the Jut aitting I prepared. the following question, which wu thus written
on the left.hand flap of the slate: "Does every man, after death, live again
in the spirit world with intelligence 1" As before said, nothing wu obtained,
either on this alate or on those of tho medium. This wu about the aecond
week in Auguat of this year. Since that date it hu been my llractice to hold
private sittings with til" slate, quit.e alone, placing both hands on the slat&
after the maimer o~ychographiata. Thoae trials took place three or four
tintes weekly, &I1d ~ about half-an·hour each time. On the l&lt Sunday
of last month I took up the slate, &I1d feeling somewhat &I1noyed at my
failurell, I aat for a fow minutes only, being too impatient to sit &I1y
longer, &I1d placod it in ita hiding-place ll1it1WUt o~nillg it, feeling sceptical
.. to there being anything within. On the following Thursday I unlocked it,
feeling IIOme impulao Btl to do, and W&I startled to find the word "No ,r
written in flowing, somewhat bold, characters on Ihe right-hand flap of the
alate, opposite to my IluCltion. As there 11"&1 certainly no writing on this
side of the alate when lut unlocked, I felt sure that it must Ilave been pro-
duced on tho occasion when I felt impatient and placed it back without
opening.
As to the answer, I expected, or rather my pre-conceived notions were,
tllst it should be Yu mther th&Il No, but I now ace that the word "every ,.
of course qualifies the answer, there being foola in the Spirit world u well as
in the Material world. There are four methods by which this writing might
have been obtained.
tat. By means of IIOU10 person tampering with the slate. This is, to my
knowledge, impouible, the key being in my poaseBBion. &I1d the slate con-
cealed in a room which is locked up from ten in the moming till nine at
night, the key being in the custody of a sen·ant. The latter, I may add,
baa never Been this slate.
2nd. That it was done at the l&lt seance with Mr. Eglinton. This is out
of the question u the slate baa been opened fifty times since that event.
3nl. That I wrote it myself automatically. I must say &I to this that the
alate is alway. kept locked, &I1d is not easy to open, the key being in one
part of the room at night and the slate in the other. I am not a s()\nnam-
buliat. I C&Ill1ot reconcile myself to the theory that I mechanically wrote an
allIwer to i. qUestiOll of a nature COlltrary to what I expected to get. Further,
sn writing on the right-ll&lld side of the slate is carefully abstained from,
~bis being the side Ull which psychogmpby is obtained, and, of course, is
kept carefully clean. Further, I do not believe in the pWlchette, having
frequently tried it, nor do I believe in the intrinsic value of so-called AUto-
matic writing. This latter I have never attempted, and am not likely to
practise the laDle on Illy scrupulously clean slate. _
'th. That the wl'iting was producc~ediulllisticallY:7 I may describe my
. DiQitizedbyGoogle
U2 Jo",.nnl 01'Soc;,tg fol' Psg('kical Researcll. [Dec., J.885.
.tate of mind 011 the evening when I believe the writing occurred aa one of
acepticism. I had experienced Be\'eral failures with Hr. Eglinton, one
following after another. concluding the lleriee. As I aid before, 1 wu
evidently .too sceptical to think it worth while to go through the fonn of
unlocking the slate to S80 if there waa any writing. I feel therefore com-
pelled to adopt this fourth theory aa tlle true explanation of the phenomenon.
Iheard no lOund of writing, aa is often heard when psychography is active,but
this is by no means necelllllU'Y. aa on a fomler occasion when Hr. Eglinton
obtained writing in my slate, we heard nothing. The writing might have
taken place aa I was carrying it back to its concealment. Doubtless the facts
I have now recorded will be received with acepticiam in lOme quarters, even
&I I have been varyingly sceptical as to the slate-writing I have experienced.
I have received encouragement to persevere in the endeavour to obtain further
results. and hope to be able to ofter some more substantial evidence at lOme
future period, when the power will become stronger. As to the physical or
psychical agency producing theae phenomena, I can only say that the
energiee at work must be intelligent and external to ourselves, the replies
being frequently contrary to those which we hoped for andconfidently believed
1;0 be the con'ect oncs.
(;EORIlE RAYLEIGH VICABS.
lIember of Society for Psychical Research.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Tile follou'ing additioll8 IIat:e bee" made Iliflce laat montA.
BLUNDELL (Walter) Painless Tootll-extraction without Chloroform
London, 1804
HARTMANN (Eduard von) Spiritism. From tho Germao ......London, 1880*
HERON-ALLEN (Ed.) A Manual of Cheirography ..................Lortdm~. 1880t
KERNER (Justinus) The SeereBl of Prevorst. Translated from
tho German by Mrs. Crowe... ....................................Londo", 1845
ME!!)lERIC HOSPITAL (Record of Cases treated in the) .........Calcutta. 1867
NEWNHA.\I (\V.) Human Magnetism .................................London, 1845
THEOBALD (F. J.) Spirit l\leBBages relating to the Nature of Christ'.
Person ..................................................................Lot&don. 1884:
THEOBALD (F. J.) Homes and Work in the Future Life ......LotwUnl, 1885~
DOPPELLEBEN. Daa Geistige ..............................................Ltipzig. 1800
VON ERK (Dr. Vincenz) reber den unterschied von Traum und
'Vachen ................... ..................................................Prag. 18'i4
GORWITZ (Dr. Hermann) ldillsolllnambulismus ......................Ltipzig. 1851
HEMMINGS, Von den Ahnungen nnd Visionen .....................LeiFig. 1777
KRITJ8CBE ANALYKE der anti-spiritistiachen Erklarungsweiae aoge-
nannter spiritistische Pbanomene von einem Nicitt-Spiritisten
Leipzig,I88'§
WIRTH (Worith) Die ){euiulllistische F1'll8e. ihre Lage und LOeung
Leipzig. 1886§
• Presented by the Translator.
::: Presented by a Member of the S.P.R.
't Presented by the Author•
§ Presented by Herr Max I>euoir.
•Digitized by GoogIe
