{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark K NDE 4352","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark K NDE 4352  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2155 Mark K NDE 4352  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been shot in the arm and side.  It took over six hours to get medical help. I remember lying on the operating table while two doctors were working on me (one was Howard). My arm was held up in the air while they were working on my arm. One of them said, 'There's some buckshot.' The other said, 'I'll get it.' 

It was then that I realized I was out of my body about ten feet above the table looking down. That freaked me out a little and then my whole life flashed before me. It was like the scales of Justice. I could see the bad things on one side and the good on the other. I could no longer see me on the table, but I was on the bottom of a very beautiful colorful (like fire opal) blue, red, yellow translucent wall. As I floated to the top and looked over, there were five people standing on the bottom of the other side, dressed in white gowns. They were very thin and young, I don't know why but I believed they were relatives and one was my grandmother from my father's side. She died years before I was born. They called me by name and tried to call me over; trying to reassure me, it was all right. I felt it was very peaceful there but I was afraid and went back down. I don't remember anything else until I was in a coma (two weeks). When I woke up, I asked the doctor about the incident and he remembered and said we thought we lost you for a while. I truly know there is a God it's beyond belief.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 23 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Gunshot Wound (Shotgun)  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was looking down at my relatives.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was looking down at my relatives.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was crystal clear but they were only ten feet away.  I just recalled that while mentally talking to the beings on the other side of the wall the translucent wall was changing colors.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I understood everything they said, but they weren't moving their mouths. I just understood them.  When the doctors talked, it was as if I was right next to them not ten feet away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I went up the translucent wall and my relatives were on the other side. It was shaped like a triangle from one side to the next.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The five people were young looking in white gowns. I felt that one was my grandmother and I believe the others were relatives. They beckoned me to come over that everything was going to be all right. They conveyed a very peaceful feeling.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazement and a little realization that if I lived I needed to change my ways (fear).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     For a brief moment my life passed before me. All the good things were on one side and all the bad things that I wasn't sorry for, on the other. I was worried because the bad outweighed the good. The good things were deeds where I helped others. Things I had totally forgotten about were there. A note: When you harm someone, we normally say 'I'm Sorry', but if you're not really sorry, it will come back later. Before that, I believed in God because that was how I was raised. After that, I KNOW there is a God and all things you do to other people are judged, and true sorrow is forgiveness.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My faith is stronger. It's hard to explain that I know there is a God. This is not a belief, it is a fact.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My faith is stronger. It's hard to explain that I know there is a God. This is not a belief, it is a fact.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that if I went over the wall I was in trouble.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Between the scales of Justice, talking to my relatives, and my experience in a coma, showed me what was important in life and how much of our brain is unused.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I still share and I don't feel that anyone believes. But I tell them the truth with hope that they might change their ways.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     While in my coma I had 24/7 each microsecond to think about my experience. When I had the chance to explain all of this to my mother, she dismissed it as a dream. We never talked about it again until the day she died. She said she talked to her mother who had died a year before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is a God, Purgatory and Hell. Live your life as if today is your last day on earth. Life on earth is for a short time life after death is for eternity. The body is a home for your soul.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I'm wrong, then I 'wasted a lifetime' If I'm, right then you may have wasted eternity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_k_nde.html