{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9121","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n24_jan_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N24 January 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXIV.-TOL. n.
JOURNAL
OJ'THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
OOJlTBJlTB.
lfelr __ben .... ~ •• .. .. .. .. .. ., ..
....... 01 00mIcII .. .. .. .. .. .• .. .. ..
e..nI)(ee&D8 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
. - -... 01 JleeUDp.. .. .. .. .. " .. ..
....:=:,~.....the UDCODK!OUI Self, b7 HOD. BodeD Noel.
0.. b7 &be iAlmII7 Oomml&See •• .. .. .. .. .. .. ••
Coaa_.,,_:-B&partmeDtIIlD Thoagh&-traDafereDC8 made NOYember lI8U1, 1886.
~ Llbn17 CaWCJ8I1II •• •• •• •• •• •• .• •• ••
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
pole.
.. IllS
.. lIiS
.. 1M
.. 1158
..1158
.. In
.. 188
.. 1M
KANE, MAHADEVA VISHNU, B.A., Government High School, Dharwar,
Bombay.
MEMBER.
EvE'l'TB, BASIL T. A., 130, Gower Street, London, W.C.
ASSOCIATES.
ELLIS, JOHN EDWARD, M.P., Nottingham.
lIARlUSON, MRS. W., Cloveny Rectory, Bideford.
Hopps, REV. J. PAGE, Lea Hurst, Leicester.
1BwIs, C. W. MANSEL, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
PIUBYTKOFF, V. I., 27, Troitzky pereoulok, St. Petersburg.
RIGG, THoMAS S. G., B.A. (Syd. Univ.), General Post Office, Sydney.
BIBLY, F. A., B.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
TuB."fBULL, MRS. PEVERIL A., Sandybrook Hall, Ashbourne, Derbyshire.
WALTER, REV. HENRY M., M.A., 2, Mandeville Place, Manchester
Square, London, W.
WOODWARD, LIONEL Mo, Tintern House, Great Malvern.
MEETING OF COUNCIL
A Council Meeting was held on the 2nd inst., the President in the
chair, when Professor H. Sidgwick and Messrs. Alexander Calder,
Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, F. W. H.
Myers, Frank Podmore, Henry A. Smith, and J. Herbert Stack were
present.
The minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the proposition of the President, Mahlldeva Vishnu KiLne, B.A.,
Head Master of the Government High School, Dharwar, Bombay, was
elected a Oorresponding Member of the Society.
It
Digitized by Google
1:')4 JOllrllalo/ Societ!J lor P8ychical Re8earch. [Jan.,l@S6.
One new Member and ten new Associates, whose names and
addresses appear on the preceding page, were also elected.
Several resignations of Members and A£sociates who from various
reasons desired at the close of the year to withdraw from the Society,
were accepted.
It was announced that Mr. Edward R. Pease desired to resign his
position as a Member of the Council at the close of the year.
The usual cash account for the past month was presented, and the
necessary accounts passed for payment.
A donation of .£1 from Miss Curtis, an Honorary Associate, was
reported, and directed to be acknowledged with thanks.
A Statement of the Receipts and Expenditure for the year endingthe
31st of December was also presented to the Council, which showed that
while there had been again a large increase in the income of the
Society from subscriptions and the sale of publications, it had still
been inadequate to meet the needful expenditure. The receipts
from the1M' sources had been supplemented by S!lme small dona-
tions, but mainly by the continued liberality of the late President,
Professor H. Sidgwick. The whole question of the finances, with special
reference to certain items, was referred to the Finance Committee, 'with
the request that it would draw up a scheme of expenditure for the
coming year, and sQ,bmit it to the Council.
The Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society, at
which the usual audited Financial Statement will be presented, will
beheld, as arranged, at the Society's Rooms, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W.• on
Friday, the 29th inst., at 4 p.m. The Council will meet previously on
the same afternoon.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held at the rooms of the
Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, S.W., on the even-
ing of the 2nd inst. The President occupied the chair.
Mr. Edmund Gurney read a paper on "Collective Hallucinations."
He pointed out that, though these phenomena had not been recognised
by psychologists, there was a large amount of evidence for their
occurrence; and they might be explained as instances of thought;..
transference. It was conceivable that even a. purely subjective hallu-
cination might spread in this way by infection; though no doubt
most of the cases where this explanation had been put forward were
cases merely of collective illusion, where a real object had been
misinterpreted in the same sense by several spectators, generally owing
to some verbal suggestion. In most, however, of the examples which
the Literary Committee had collected, the original hallucination seemed
Jan., 1886.J JOllrnalqf Society for Psychical RelJearcli. 155
to be probably ~kpat"ic, and due to the contemporaneous crisis of
some absent person; and in such cases it was sometimes conceivable
tha.t the absent person had influenced two (or more) percipient
directly; while sometimes it seemed more natural to suppose that the im-
pression had been propagated from one of these percipients to another.
According to this theory if the reality of impressions from deceased
persons were ever solidly established, sensory hallucinations so caused
might be communicable from one person to another in just the samo
way.
The President said that he had listened with pleasure to the able and
interesting paper by Mr. Gurney. Before going further he should like
to refer for a few moments to the progress that had been made by the
Society during·.the year that had just closed. He had been gratified at
finding that it now numbered 643 members, being an increase of over 120
since this time last year. He thought thu.t the success of the Society had
been in great measure due to the fact that, in his opinion, the relation
between Science and Philosophy had in its researches been just as it
should be. It WIUI his conviction that their continued prosperity
depended on the legitimate claims of both being duly recognised, and he
thought this was being done by Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney in the
special work in which they, were engaged. The fact. of Telepathy having
been established beyond doubt, it was being investiga.ted in many
diJferent directions. Mr. Gurney's analysis of a numbel' of cases of
collective ha.llucination might play an important part in this investi-
gation.
Some persons, the President continued, would like to go on a.
little faster than the Society seemed to be moving. His own wonder
was that so much had been done. Ordinary science did not make rapid
progress. The work of the chemist. for instance, was exceedingly slow.
lIen of science have, however, been too ready to build dead walls. It
has been suggested that t.his Society had been doing something of the
&ame kind itself. But he felt quite certain that no such stigma would
attach to it. The Society had been loyal to the truth in its youth,
and he believed it would remain so as it grew older. He did not
belicve in any such thing as a dead wall in science. The intellectual
landscape was in that respect as boundless as the physical. But the
work must be carried on laboriously. There is no royal road to any
kind of knowledge. The links of connection must be maintained in
every step taken. It will be found to have been a great adva.ntage tha.t
telepathy should be worked up in everypossible wa.y, ever bell.ring ill mind
that there is no such thing as 0. dead wall. In concluding his remarks,
the President said that he considered that the Society had made as great
progress as could possibly have becn expected. He now invited remarks
from anyone in the meeting.
K :1
156 Journal ofSociety/or PSJ/cAical Research. [Jan., 1886.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers said that although he usually found himself
in accordance with Mr. Gurney on points of this kind, he saw great
difficulties in the theory which had just been broa.ched,-expla.ining
collective hallucinations, of telepathic origin, by a communication of
the telepathic impact to some one primary percipient, and then the
infection of other persons in his neighbourhood with the hallucination
which that primary percipient's mind had deTeloped. We had thus to
assume not only that the death of onA man could generate a
hallucinatory percept in anothel,-which the evidence sufficiently
proved,-but also that this hallucinatory percept itself possessed a
power of infecting other minds without verbal suggestion. This
infectiousness seemed to need corroboration from non-telepathic cases,
before we could assume it as operative in telepathic cases. But there
was no evidence that the hallucinations of the insane were ever
communicated either amongst themselves or to sane persons by
infection without verbal suggestion, although insane delusions were
often communicated to others by verbal suggestion. Mr. Gurney's
cases of the supposed spreading of a hallucinatory image-not of tele-
pathic origin-from one sane person to another seemed of a very
dubious character. Most of them were cases of what was ta.ken at the
time to be the voice of a dead person. But he (the speaker) considered
that the possibility or otherwise of communications with the so-called
dead was an entirely open question, and that until the evidence had
been thoroughly sifted we were bound to preserve a bond fide neutrality,
and not to treat such narratives as though the interpretation which the
narrators placed upon them were out of the question. He felt strongly
the da.nger of which the President had spoken,-the danger that those
who believed themselves to have attained to some truth new to
science-such as telepathy-should build a wall round this
new extension of territory, and refuse to look beyond it, in the
same way as other men often refused to look beyond the limit
to which the accredited sciences had already attained. For his own
part, he preferred t() seek the explanation of these collective veridical
hallucinations in the direction of clairvoyance. In the simplest tele-
pathic experiment-the transference of a word or number from one
mind to another-the percipient's mind was probably in reality more
active than the so-called agent's, for it was, of course, easy to think of
the word, but to most people impossible to divine it. And throughout
the series of spontaneous telepathic cases we might trace instances of
this activity 0/ percipience-as when a man, either in dream or
waking life, seemed to himself to be transported into a distant seene
and witnessing it from a particular standpoint. Now we certainly need
not suppose that he was in this distant scene in any material fashion,
that there was anything transported thither which could reflect light or
Digitized by Google
Jau., 1886.J Journal Qf Society for Psychical Research. 167
----------------
act; on the ponderable world. But it was conceivable that a centre of
psychical energy might be thus translated, and might form a phantaB-
moue-netic radiant-point-o. point in apparent space, that is to say, from
whence hallucinations might be generated, which should thus directly
reach all or some of the persons present. Support seemed to be given
to this view by reciprocal cases; cases, that is to say, where something
was perceived at each end of the telepathic line, where A felt himself to
he in B's home, and saw what B was doing, while B on his side per-
cei\"ed A's phantom in the very place where A felt himself to be.
Apologising for the obscurity of this theory and for the trivial character
of an illu.c;trative example given, Mr. Myers concluded by saying that so
long as we were content to think vaguely of the great primary concep-
tions with which these discussions were bringing us into somewhat
closer contact, they appeared simple and sublime; while rudi-
mentary attempts to give precision and actuality to our thought were
likely to seem grotesque, trivial, and obscure. Yet, in other regions of
inquiry men had found that, after passing through a period of similarly
tentative groping among "beggarly elements," they had been able to
reconstitute great conceptions in a simplicity and sublimity founded more
firmly than before on observation and fact.
Mr. R. Pearsall Smith (of Philadelphia), a Member of the Council
of the American Society for Psychical Research, congratulated the
Association on its marked success in gathering together so many men of
high scientific reputation; on the careful and yet courageous investiga-
tions, and on the marked talent shown in its papers. He specially spoke
of the number of intellectual young men who had been recently saved by
its thorough investigations and masterly Report from the in1luence of a
fascinating imposture, a work which could not have been accomplished
save by an organised society. The affiliated Association in America is
composed of the best representative men of science, whose work will in
due time tell upon para.llellines in the development of psychic research.
He believed that the Society was building" better than it knew," and
that the in1luence of its work was spreading throughout the whole Anglo-
Saxon world and beyond, opening up, in its final results, great "truths
deep seated in our mystic frame," which bear vitally on human wel-
fare and happiness. He could not see how any delusive phenomena
could long survive the calcium light of such accurate, systematic, con-
tinuous observation and record, or how wha1i truths were behind real
phenomena could escape being brought out into the light.
Mr. Douglas B. W. Sladen asked permission to mention an occur-
rence which had happened to himself. Some years ago, when in
Anstralia, he dreamed one night that his father's house in England was
on fire. The dream woke him up. He observed the time,about 1.30 a.m.,
roused his wife and told her of his dream, and also, there and then,
Digitized by Google
158 Journall?f Societ,ll fo,. Psychical Rtseal·cl,. [Jan.,188&.
-----
made an entry ill his diary. Six weeks afterwards he learned by letter
from England that a fire bad occurred exactly as he had dreamed.
But there was this curious circumstance. After allowing for differ-
ence of longitude, about 91 hours, it still seemed as if his dream ,,-as
several hours subsequent to the time of the actual occurrence_
It had struck him whether the time of his dream corresponded with
the hour at which his father might have been writing to him the next
day, whell his father's thoughts were centred both on the fire and on
himself. But this he had not ascertained. However, the fact remained
that the circumstances of the fire were transmitted to him visibly at a.
distance of 11,000 miles...
The meeting then assumed a com-ersational character.
ANNOUSCEMENT OF MEETINGS.
The Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society will
be held at the Society's Rooms, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W., on Friday, the
29th of January, at 4 p_m. The nex~ General Meeting of the Society
will be held on Saturday, the 6th of March.
HALLUCINATION, MEMORY, AND THE UNCONSCIOUS
SELF.
By HON. RODEN NOEL.
As my strictures on Messrs. Von Hartmann, Gurney, and Myers
were published in Ligltt, and as it must be a little difficult for our
readers to judge of them from the extracts which my friend Mr. Myers
has made in the course of his reply (Journal, December), it seems well,
by permission of the editor, te say a few words here. I hardly think Mr.
Myers has attempted to meetmy objections; he would rather seem to have
made, as it were, casual darts at my papers here and there, and fished out
extracts almost at random from them, somewhat as a boy makes darts
at Ilo dish of snapdragon. I fear, however, he has not approved of my
plums, and I hope he has not burnt his fingers! But this method is •
perhaps a little bit hard on one's objections,-though I am glad he gives
me credit for CI eanlestness," if for no other good quality. And while I
am not disposed to begrudge him his claim to greater knowledge of
physiology than I call pretelld to, I am sure he will pardon me for
• On further inquiry we learn froDl Mr. Sladen that th"re was a discrepancy of &
few days between the time of the fire and hisdream experience. He writes that" the
day (In which his father wrote to him was the 22nd of December, 1881, and the date!
of entry in the diary was 1 a.m_ of December 23rd, though entered not unnaturally at
the foot of DflCtlmber 22ncl, after all the events of that day." And" as 1 a.m_ in
Victoria on December 23rd c(lrresponds with 3.30 p.m. on December 22nd in EnJrland.
and as the Australian mail cloees in branch offices at I; p.m., nothing is more1ikelr
than that his father should ha\-e been writing tohim just an hour orao before the mail
c:10lled."
Digitized by Google
.Tat 1_] Journal of Sockty for Psychical Reutlrc". 159
retorting that I in my turn could wish my esteemed opponentjusta trifle
more fully equipped in metaphysics and psychology for his arduous
undertaking.
Because I myself believe that philosophy (in this sense) can
alone furnish the clue we need to guide us through this labyrinth of
O<leult and unfamiliar facts, which the admimbly patient a.nd difficult
in,-esti.,aations of Mr. Myers himself and his working colleagues of our
Society (in collaboration with French and other "researchers ") are
gradually revealing, or, at any rate, reliving. And yet I own that I
deem it a somewhat serious charge which he has brought against me-
this of ignorance of the most elementary laws of physiology-and that
partly because no man can afford to be ignorant of the results of the
best thought of his time, even with respect to matters only remotely
related to the topic under discussion-partly also because I have in
Ligl.t actually entered, though only a little way, upon that physiological
line of argument, on which the peculiar theories of the writers under
consideration necessarily invited me to enter. And though I cannot, and
do not, as Mr. Myers rightly surmises, pretend to be a physiological expert
of the same calibre as my friends the English authors of these very
ingenious and intricate psycho-physiological hypotheses, which are,
from their (somewhat startling) originality, even compelling their
authors to favour us with quite a new language of their own, yet I do
claim a little of that el.erMntanJ knowledge which nearly every educated
man now possesses; indeed, I have formerly been much interested in
. this particular science of physiology, and have read several standard
treatises upon it. Moreover, though I have, as I say, partly through
inability, and partly through failure to understand that physiology has
more than a remote connection with the topics under discussion,
entered only a little way into this question, yet I fail to see that
Hr. Myers in his answer (if, indeed, he intended his remarks for
answer) has convicted me of such entire ignorance of the rudiments of
the science as he apparently imputes to me in the course of his
remarks.
As instances of "misapprehensions of a somewhat rudimentary kind"
(misapprehensions, as it appears from the context, of phytJioWgical di~
coveries), I am surprised to find that Mr. Myers cites my suggestion that
in madness the patient may be really conversing with some alien intelli-
gences out of the flesh, as he supposes himself to be doing, and that
in dreams we may sometimes be really conversing with those persons
we imagine ourselves to meet. But if Mr. Myers had done me the honour
to read me attentively he would have seen that I acknowledge the
difficulty of supposing that we do so when they are, 'So far as they can
remember, not thinking or dreaming of us, or do not conceive them-
seh·es to be in the situations belonging to our dream (thus Mr. Myers'
Digitized by Google
'160 Journal qf 8ociet,'Ifor PsyckiClll Research. [J...., 1886.
fun about Bradlaugh and the woolsack does not touch me) 1 But as
Mr. Myers is himself, unless 1 err, partly responsible for the statement,
founded on testimony received by our own Society, that a dreamer is
peculiarly open to "telepathic" impressions from other spirits far away
from him in the flesh, 1 scarcely see the force of his caveat that my sugges-
tion about dreams and madmen shows the danger of not knowing more
about physiology, and is a reversion to tha "crude explanations of a
pre-scientific age." For if many dreams are admitted by Mr. Myers and
his friends to be due to the telepathic influence of spirits (1 thank
our researchers for that valuable discovery of the fact" telepathy,"
and for the convenient word), and if their great knowledge of physi-
ology has nothing to say against that admission, 1 fail to see why it
should have so much more to say against a suggestion that all dreams
may possibly be due to a similar cause. The fundamental mystery,
which is yet a fact, is the transmi~on of impressions, or ideas,
from mind to mind. The study of occasions or attendlUlt circum-
stances, though interesting, helps us not at all to explain
the fact, nor perception. My argument as regards dreams and
hallucinations (more fully given in Light) is briefly, that they are
for the most part as vivid and apparently sensible as our normal
waking perceptions, that they are felt and believed by us at the time to
,be as objectiveand external to ourselves as the bodies and objects we per-
ce'ive when wide awake; the only difference being that our perception
in the former case is unshared by persons in the normal waking condi·
tion. Upon that 1 remark that if they were in our condition, or sphere,
we should probably perceive the same, or similar, objects, but as weare
not in their sphere or condition, we also fail to perceive and confinu the
reality of their objects. Does Mr. Myers think, then, that his, or any
one's knowledge of physiology ezplai'118 normal perception 1 1 can only say
that Professor Huxley, for one, does not agree with him, and that perhaps
no physiologist,who is also a metaphysician,agrees with him. Mr. Gurney,
I think, does not. But if physiology cannot explain normal percep-
tion, 1 do not understand why it should be more successful with halluci-
nations or dreams. Here you have awave of a certain length in a supposed
-ether (the whole being confessed to be only a good working hypothesis),
.impinging on certain nerves, whose vibrations, or changes of some sort,
nobody knows exactly what, are communicated to certain nervous
centres-does Mr. Myers think that throws any real light on the very
.simplest sensation of green or blue, let alone the perception of an
ordered landscape 1 If he does, 1 do not know of any philosophical
physiologist who agrees with him. Nor again does the other fact
(which 1 am as far from denying 8.8 I am of denying that this correJ.a..
lation in normal perception is a fact) that when I see a landscape or
person in my sleep, and talk with that person-these being experiences
Digitized by Google
JaD., l.88G.] JOllrnal of Societyfor P'!lchical Research. ]61
fully as vivid, and seemingly real, as the former, or when a madman
is hallucinated with the same vivid impression of reality, there is
probably a nervous change passing downward from the. ideational
centres to special sense-centres-nor again, I say, does this other
probable fact throw any more light upon the dream, or ballucination-
experience than the former correlated physiological fact threw upon
normal sensation or perception. And let Mr. Myers be able to pass
ever so stiff an examination in physiology, biology, anatomy, entomology,
botany, or astronomy (all sciences of extreme interest to myself, as
well as to him), I do not think: he will ever find that either of them
throw any real light upon psychology and metaphysics-[except, indeed,
indirectly, for all is in correlation, nothing isolated.]. But what makes
us admit the existence of a world external to ourselves1 Why, only
common-sense, instinct, that very "intuition" about which Mr. Myers
expresses himself so contemptuously. Now I argue that the same
common-sense, intuition, orinstinct, assures the dreamer,or the madman,
that he also is in presence of a world external to himself. And I do
not quite see how a rudimentary, or even a perfected, acquaintance with
lIr. Myers' pet science is going to dispose of his intuition, unless it is
also going to dispose of the waking man's perception~lly since,' as
I have argued in Ligkl.,the sense-centres are admitted by physiologists to
beaft"ected in these other casesalso, though it be from the cortical centres
outward. Ifit is replied that others do not share the same experience,
and so confirm it, my rejoinder is that the dreamer does not share our
(waking) experienceany more than we share his. Each is surrounded by
hisown external world according to his condition, and others in the same
condition are likely to share the same, or at least a similar experience.
I know enough to know that physiologists do not profess to be able
always to discover a chemical, or other peculiarity of brain-structure in
cases of madness; but if they were able, I should still maintain that,
since their science cannot explain fUW71I41 perception, neither can it
any better explain abnormal. But I am, to use Mr. Myers' expression,
"in earnest" with my idealism; and I am not at all sure that Mr.
Myers, though he explains that he also is an idealist, is as much in
esmest with that as he is with his physiology. For he says that
"neither Mr. Noel nor I am likely to prove this interesting thesis."
But I do not hold my idealism on these easy terms. I consider it
quite as certain and" provable" as physiology.
Even an elementary course of physiology should have shown Mr.
Myers that our sensations are subjective, that colour is not in a dead
IDaterial objf'Ct, because it is a feeling; and then a little elementary
philO$ophy will show him that when felt as a colour-as blue or green-
it needs to be discriminated, identified, distinguished, I;lOmpa.red by our
implicitly self-identifying Ego. And that is still more true of 80
Digitized by Google
162 Journal of Societ,ll for P8!lcllical Re8eflrch. [JIlII.,lSSG.
perception. In order to form part of a system, or order of experience.
it needs comparison with other percepts present, or remembered, a.nd
united in one self-identified succession, or system of experience. only
constituted such according to certain permanent moulds or forms of
sense, and thought, space and time, and other categories. This is no
speculative theory-(Mr. Myers, curiously enough, seems to object to
speculath-e theories, though his own are so ingenious)-but it is the
most rudimentary mental philosophy. Surely, since Berkeley, Hume,
and Kant, it is impossible to ignore, or affect to treat it as doubtful, if
one has at all understood the problem, and the solution offered by
philosophy 1 Now, as I believe that we, by our mental constitution, give
" laws" to nature, and Call only comprehend her according to the
laws of our own knowing faculty, why Mr. Myers attributes to me
the odd notion that "phenomena" are " rea.l," hut not" laws," I cannot
even remotely guess! " Phenomena" are only possible and conceivable
by and tl~rough "laws," or uniformity of op'eration. But what I
maintain is that the ideal u the rea~ and the real uthe idt'.al. From
what I have said it must be obvious that there can be no real outofthe
ideal; out of minds, therefore, for only in and by minds can the ideal
process of experience, which alone makes phenomena possible, take place
at all. Percepts, or objects can only be in and through some consciously
arranged, and implicitly self-identified order, or system of experience,
which involves one Ego at les.st. If common-sense, or intuition insists
that it is also outside this Ego, say myself, then assuredly I have here
shown thn.t it must be in another, or many other similar conscious Egos.
How " physiology" is going to affect this conclusion I cannot at a.ll
imagine.
Then again as to memory. Mr. Myers also classes my theory of
memory as another" misapprehension of 0. somewhat rudimentary kind,"
and the context sbows he means 0. phyBiological misapprehension! From
this I suppose Mr. Myers really thinks that what pbysiologico.l
psychology tells us about nervous changes, or motions in the ready·
made channels of least resistance explains memory. I am quite aware
of what this school has said, but it never struck me as explaining
memory at all, whether my own theory be right or wrong. Thatseems
to me to explain it, not of course fully, but a little better than other
thoories. Does not Mr. Myers see that you might have the sa.me, or
similar neural changes for ever, and even if you got their psychico.l
correlates (but Mr. Myers does not know l/,Ow you get these, or why
there should be such 0. correlation, for, as I said in Lig/~t, the dance of
molecules in the nervous systems of Goethe and Homer does not explain
the" Iliad" or "Faust," any more than Mr. Myers' own algebraical
formula for revelations-XX'+HH'~xpla.ins the Bible), even, I
say, if you got their psychical correlates, you would not be a bit nearer
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1886.J Journal flf 8odet!lfor P8ycMcni Be8earc!.. 163
to memory? For memory does not consist in tl'6 identity of nervous
changes, or even of their corresponding concepts, but in our recognition
01 tl,em as the same. These nervous changes themselves, or e\'en their
psychical correlates, being isola.ted and successive, cannot identify tl66m-
1It11:1J8, C01IJpaT6 themsel'/J68 with tl,eir own paBt. That needs a one
and self-identical Mr. Myers, an Ego, a person. Each nervous change
itself, as we conceive it, and each psychical correlate, a.bsolutely needs
and implies that. Memory, though so commonplace and constant n.
phenomenon, is about the most mystical and difficult of all
phenomena. to understand. You try and remember whll.t is not in con-
sciousness, and yet directly that flashes into it you recognise it for
what you were seeking, and for the same image or notion as has been
in your mind before. That involves a self-identifying Ego, the
same through all changes of experience, and implicitly knowing itself
to be the same, comparing the present with the past experience, and
pronouncing it either identical or different. But if you want to know
what memory is, you must carefully examine and reflect on your con-
scious experience; you may, of course, also dissect, or vivisect somebody's
brain if you like; only the brain seems to be one thing, and my
remembrance of a past fact quite another. Now, I argue that if
there was an external object, person, or thing affecting your first per-
ception, and if your memory assures you that you are now conscious of
the same thing or person, that thing or person 'must be now again
affecting you. But you are o.lso aware tha.t it is the past of that person
or thing which you now remember; the past is restored, therefore, and'
become present, but this (which seems to me like a miracle) is only
possible, I suppose, if the past has not perished; yet in time it has
perished; hence it must' be out of its trtm8C6ndent being, above and
beyond time, that it now affects you. That argument may be unsound,
bat I do not see how it argues insufficient knowledge of pllYriology to
maintain it, nor do I think the instance of the squib a reductio ad
oblltrclulll of it, since I regard all phenomena as in theil' essential being
transcendent, squibs included! But then I am "in earnest."
With regard to the" more complicated confusion" attributed to me
on p. 124, I am at a lOBS to conceive on what kind of misunderstanding the-
clmrge may be founded. On p. 516 of Ligl.e what I am referring to is
not sensations, but thoughts, and these are nsually located, even by
advanced physiologists, I have understood, in the cortical centres, and
not in the muscles. But really Mr. Myers must have a portentous
idell of my ignonmce if he supposes me unaware of the fact he mentions
of the girl remembering a tune, so to speak, with her fingers I
But this leads me to remark that Mr. Myers has apparently darted at
the side issues raised in my papers, and, seemingly, has wishedrathel' ill
his tum to pillory my theories tha.n to answer my objections.
Digitized by Google
164 Ji,"rnal of Sociefyfor PS!lcMcal ReSl'flrcl,. [.JaD., l.888.
What 1 expressly urged against him in Ligl'" (though llr.
Myers is curiously wrong in his allegation that the greater part of my
eflSay was directed against him! whereas it was chiefly a reply to Von
Ha.rtma.nn, and in part to Mr. Gurney) was that the instances of this
habit-organised, or secondary reflex action, and those of our behaviour
when absent-minded, or attending to something else, which he brings to
support his theory of an unconscious secondary self, as explaining a
great proportion of the phenomena. of Spiritism, attribut.ed by Spiritists
to intelligences out of the body, other tha.n those of the medium and
drcle, or the psychogra.phic writer, are really not to the point.
Because (1) here there is nothing organised for reflex action by
inheritance, or by habit and long practice; (2) in psychography, or in
wa.tching slate writing through Eglinton, or at a Spiritist seance, the
persons concerned are not Commonlyattending strenuously to something
else, or absolutely given over to a day dream. They are, on the con-
trary, either watching keenly (perhaps suspiciously) the present p~
ceedings, or at all events in a frame of more or less blank, and expectant
attention to the matter in hand.
And yet under these circumstances occur the extraordinary phen~
mena of slate writing, or those other extraordinary phenomena happen-
ing at Spiritist seances-(1 mean, of course, granting them genuine). The
special instance 1 brought forward as inconsistent with Mr. Myers'
hypothesis was that of Mr. and Mrs. Newnham, detailed in our "P~
ceedings," and commented on as a proof of his theory by Mr. Myers
(1 also brought forward the Clelia ana.gra.ms) j and 1 may observe here
that Mr. Myers is mistaken in supposing that my comments upon the
very interesting experiments in mesmerism detailed by him in the
Fortnigl"'Zy were intended for an interpretation of his opinions
(1 know how totally our opinions differ); they were my own interpreta-
tion of his facts. But though Mr. Myers tells us he believes in a tran-
scendent self, I do not quite know what use he makes of it, if not to
afford a refuge, so to speak,for the incuba.tingideas which are to enter,
but have not yet entered the conscious current of a particular personal
experience: that is one great use of it for me, though I assert that these
cannot enter in two full, parallel, uncommunicating, simultaneous con-
scious currents. The transcend. nt Ego ha.s itself blocked the way for
on" by providing another at 0. given moment. If we ever attend
strenuously to more than one thing at a time, we are awa.re of it then,
and remember it afterwards. I criticised particularly the "sub-con-
scious" department of this perhaps somewhat many-chambered, and
elastic theory, in reference to the Newnham case. For the writers
seem now to maintain absolute, a.'ld now only relative unconsciousness
in their secondary self, as if they didn't quite know on which leg to
stand. 1 rather wish they would finally decide on one alternative or
Digitized by Google
:Tau., 1886.] Journal of Societ.v lor P81lchical Ruearch. 16:)
the other. Thus too Hartmann seems to oscillate between a.bsolute
unconsciousness, and an even /ulkr "masked somnambulic," or
clairvoyant consciousness in this secondary self (in the latter sellS&
Mr. Massey interprets him, at least). But I shall here confine
myself chiefly to Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney (in this last
December paper Mr. Myers appears to prefer Mr. Gurney's
•• Bub-conscious" view). Now that, I think, is quite inapplicable to
this case. Because, as I have said, it is impossible that Mrs. Newnham
herself can have been only sub-conscious of the written questions of her
husband, and of the relevant answers that were written to them through
planchette, while yet her mind was not strenuously occupied with 801M
other subject, or abandoned to aimless reverie, but, so far as appears from
the printed account, was blankly and expectantly attentive. If such
a. process had taken place in her mind at all, reading and comprehend-
ing questions put by another, and intelligently replying to them, though
in a. peculiar fashion quite uncharacteristic of herself (her attention not
being occupied otherwise), she could not have been sub-conscious, only
semi-conscious of it; the work would not have been done, more-
over, unless she was fully conscious; and if she was fully con-
scious of it, and yet not cons::ious of it at the Ba77J6 ti77J6, that is the self-
contradictory hypothesis which I am sure no knowledge of "physiology,,.
however advanced, could ever make me, for one, content to swallow.
I tried to show, moreover, that ab80lutely unconscious intelligence
is an absurd a.nd self-contradictory idea--a.lso that a transcendent
consciousness did not seem applica.ble to such Ilo case-but now I will
confine myself to a. little further brief comment on this sub-conscious
self tbeory, which, I ga.ther from his present paper, Mr. Myers now
wishes to put forward as his own finally a.uthorised version of his hypo-
thesis of an unconscious secondary self. But unless we are going to use
the words, "conscious" and " unconscious" self, in some peculiar sense
of our own, I really do not think there is much need to define them.
since they connote ideas· so funda.mental, universal, and primary. I
complained in Light, however, that the writers criticised did not seem
to have realised clearly what a self (as universally and by common-
seD86 understood) actually does imply, for else they could hardly have
invented these hypotheses. Definitions of the most primary and
universally understood fact of experience consciO'lume88 are perhaps a.
little dangerous, as they may possibly tend to limit the meaning too
much. Unconscious, of course, unle.ss specially defined, is just the
negation, excluding opposite of conscious. But Mr. Myers says, "by
an experiment in definition" lte will mean by "conscious" " memorable,"
that may be remembered. Yet, though sensation is certainly conscious,
it is not always rememberable-at least at once-though, ultimately, I
believe it is. The faintest sensation, if a "sensation," or feeling at all,'
Digitized by GoogIe
166 JourlJalQf Society for P8!JcMcal Raenrc". ' [Jail., 1SS6.
must be, as I have said, imp1icit1v di,eril1linatea, and therefore implies
a. one implicitly self-identifying Ego behind it. However, if Mr. lIyers
means by " unconscious" faint, and practically unrememberable sensa-
tions, then I say that these would clearly be incompetent to perform the
work attributed to the intelligence who wrote automatically through
Mrs. Newnham j for that comprehended and appraised the questions of
her husband, carefully and deliberately adapting answers to them
through the muscles of Mrs. Newnham. That was the work of a
complex, '·tJnllmwering, matured self-conscious thought, not of vague,
unrememberable sensations.
Yet Mrs. Newnham had her train of thought and observation too,
going on at UIAJ ,ame time, and she assures us that of this other train of
thought she knew nothing, till she saw it written down. That, llr.
Myers thinks, belonged, however, as he now says, to a "second focus
of consciousness in the one mind" of Mrs. Newnham. And he adds
that his position is this: ., One such focus of potential (not necessarily
of actual) consciousness may acquire knowledge, or perform operations
not acquired or performed by another focus, and communicate such
knowledge, &c., to the other in various ways." Now, I must repeat
that this is distinctly a description of two selv8I!I, not of one. You may
call two selves two foci, and say they belong to one mind, but that
does not make thefact otherwise. Mr. Myers says that I use words as
" metaphysical counters." On the.contrary, I claim that in my use of the
words "self" and U conscious" I simply follow the meaning assigned
to them by universal consent, and common usage. That is true when I
say the conscious can never identify itself with the unconscious j they
being states absolutely exclusive of one another-by that I mean, in
their commonly understood sense. But wilen you come to give a
peculiar'meaning of your own to the term U unconscious," and make
itmean "faintlyconscious," then I would no longerassertthis-farfromit
-though Mr. Myers indeed asserts it when he says that the ,-ery faintly
~onscioU8 cannot be remembered. That I shall totally deny, if he metUls
never. I contend that feeling, if it be feeling at all, must Ilave some
c:haracter (however vaguely) attributed to it at the moment, and that
this implies lOme attention-wilen the neural process has been long
enough to accompany (not, observe, to cause) any rise abo'·e the thres-
hold of consciousness, expressing myself in the terms of that. par-
ticular psychological school j and if there has been any attention, t·he
feeling may always be remembered on the fit occasion. But 1\lr. Myers
must be talking of vague percepts, or notions j el~ his l'f'.marks would
be totally irrelevant to the discussion. Now these imply indisputably
some attention, or they could never have been formed and dis-
tinguished at 11011, and so they certainly are "memorable." However, my
present point is that thl'se faint experiences gather round no " focus of
Digitized by Google
Jan.,l8S6.] Journalqf Sode/lIfo,. P'lIcllical Re8eal'cll. 161
mentation" whatsoever, unless it be the one focus of the implicitly self
identifying Ego, or self. I know that they do so, whether "memor-
able" at a given moment or not--for 'else they could never have been
eouscious at all, never have risen above the threshold of consciousness,
that is, of ours. What other "second focus of mentation" does Mr. )Iyers
think they gather around 1 If we must put-and we must ill these dis-
cussions-the intuition of common-sense into philosophical language,
then certainly what everybody who has not a theory to defend means by
a" self" is a given order of experience that is capable of SUbjective
or inward identification as belonging to one and the same focus of con-
sciousness, however various the successive details of which it is composed.
That one focus is you, or I. But if there are simultaneous details of ex-
perience twt '0 identifiable at the time by 1M, or you, as '!lours or miM,
then common-sense, as I believe, refuses to call these mine or yours.
True, if they are very faintly realised, they may be only implicitly, not
self-consciously, so identified, and they may hardly be" memorable," in
lIr. Myers' sense, at any given moment, therefore are apparently lost
for a time, out of the sameidentical conllCiousness of you 01' me. Yet the
very class of recent experiments with which Mr. Myers is familiar, in
hypnotic and other cognate conditions, should have made him particu-
larly shy of deciding tha~ bocause a detail does not recur to memory
now, therefore it was ncv(r in 11 given conscious e..'tperience at all-for
he knows repeated inst:mccs in which it does recur upon special con-
ditions being fulfilled. There may be alternating personalitiesgathered
up into a fuller and more transcendent Ego. And the very differentia.
of these apparently unaUacW details is that they gather round no focus
at aU, except in so far as they gather round the one ordinary focus
(or lapseinto the transcendent). Butround whatother simultaneous focus
are they held to gather' If they do gather round such a second focus,
then I contend that they never could have heen mine, or yours, at all;
they did, in fact, gather round mine or yours, and, therefore, did not
round any other. IfI had no experience of them, then they were never
mine, but belonged from the very first to someone else, They were, in
fact, so vaguely and faintly anr! implicitly gathered round the one
focus, which is the one self of you, or me, that Mr. AIyers can fancy
they were gathered round a ,econd focus of experienc8-0nly, he adds,
belonging to the same self, you or me. Not, I reply, if it was conscious
and simultaneous, because a second focus of conscious experience means
(according to, common-sense and common parlance) a different self or
penon, and not the same.
But, further, such unmemorable, and isolated vague experiences
eould never have done the work o.ctually performed by the Newnham
intelligence, 0. work of mature thought, reacting upon other mature
thoughts presented to it. Yet directly these faint, isolated, what l'tlr.
Digitized by Google
168 Journal o/Societ!lfor PS!lcllical Research. [J&II., IS8&.
Myers calls" unconscious" feelings rose sufficiently above the thres-
hold of consciousness in Mrs. Newnham's mind all to be capable ofdoi7lf!
toll4t tDa8 done, they could no longer, even according to Mr. Myers' own
showing, have gathered round the second focus, around which he thinks
faint, unmemorable, in his sense unconscious, feelings do gather (though,
in fact, in so far as such vague, isolated, because unorganised,
unsystematised feelings do not gather round OM focus of experience
they clearly do not gather about any), but they would then of neces-
sity gather around the first, i.e., Mrs. Newnham's ordinary, fully
matured self-conscious focus of experience-which is precisely what she
assures us they did not. And, therefore, I conclude that this intelligence
was not then, never was before, and never will be afterwards, her intel-
ligence, but was, is, and a.lways will be someone else's, i.e., that of some
third intelligence, using her brain and body to communicate with her
and her husband-which is the conclusion of Spiritism. Mr. Myers
will have to prove not only that faint unmemorable feelings may gather
round a second focus of mentation, and yet belong to the same person,
though he knows nothing of it, but also that a full-blown, mature, se1£-
identifying, self-remembering system of consciousness may do 80; and
yet that is precisely what he now disclaims being supposed to mean [
He talks, indeed, of " a second potentially (not necessarily &lJtually)
conscious focus of mentation." What does he mean 1 A" potentially"
conscious intelligence could certainly not have done the work attributed
to it. He must mean either B6mHlonscious, or unconscious. Both alterna-
tives are inadmissible, as I have shown. He talks also of " ideas which
have already attained an unusual degree of force and ela.boration,"
being " transferred from the unconscious to the conscious mind." What
are unconscious ideas, and whose 1 Only Von Hartmann,and Mr. Myers
know! If he means B6mHlonscious, then these cannot have obtained
much "force or elaboration," else they would have becomefuUy con-
scious before, that being just what is meant by fully conscious. And
then they were either in Mrs. Newnham, or in someone else-not in
her, out of her, and in her at the same moment. This is what I mean by
"both confounding the persons, and dividing the substa.nce." For this
intelligence must have had all our categories, or fixed formal modes of
thought behind it, by help of its own past remembered experience,
understanding, remembering, putting together, Mr. Newnham's ques-
tions, besides seeing them written, and then, by help of the same re-
membered and compared experience, putting relevant answers together.
and writing them down. Whose was it 1 Now, really, physiological
knowledge, however advanced, cannot help us to prove that two and
two do not make four, that two straight.lines can enclose a space, that.
every effect need not have an adequate cause to produce it, or that it
is extremely possible for the same thing to be and not to be at the
Digitized by Google
:s.... 181!6.} JOfIrnal of 8oc~t!l.for PllJlclticalRe~arc". 169
same moment. These I have always supposed hitherto, and others like
unto them, are not physiological, but 8lathematical, and metaphysical
questiou.s-however unfashionable the philosophy of first principles or
metaphysics, and psychology, properly so-called, the philosophy of our
subjective experience, may have become since a dark and" pre-scientific
age."
Again, to assert this developed and capable intelligence cWlOlutelll
unconscious is, to my mind, equally absurd and self-contrRdictory, and
you would then have positively no evidence whatsoever for any other
oonacioumess than yonr own. Mr. Myers then might be an uncon-
scious cerebrator only/(W 1M, and I the same for him. There remains
Mr. Massey's hypothesis, which seems to me the only philosophical one,
other than that of Spiritism; yet even this, I thiuk, though 80 largely
agreeing with him in many respects, will not hold water in the pressnt;.
instance. That is, briefly, the hypothesis of a tmrlllUntknt Ego,
including the normal ancl contemporary experience of Mrs. Newnham,
but this latter not including it. Now I hold to this transcendent
eternal Ego myself as necessary to account for, and give a basis to, our
changing and transitory experience. But in proportion as it is eternal
and transcend"nt we can, tJ;C "'vpotiJen, only know it tJ8 it manvu"
itHIf to U8 from ,1I01Mnt to moment, IUCcunvelv in timtl. And 80,
various as it may be, and infinitely different at different periods, we
still know it to be oura-for this it is transcendentally, in our real
,..H7Itw being. But once let a mature experience, temporary~
phenomena), come into consciousness nmultaneotuZll with another, and
y"t fail to be identified by us as ours, I hold that common-sense
must declare it to belong to anotlier person, or system of expel-ience,
that is, to another tmnacendent self, and not to ours. Here, however,
the radical difference between us is that Mr. Massey admits of no
absolute or transcendent- individualities at all-he is a Vedantist.
pur 6IJng.
But if you go in for literally unconscious cerebration, then, being
II in earnest" with my idealism, I must own that I can only regard
brain and organism as conceptions in a mind, or in many; when, and so
far 88 not in ours, .then in and through the minds of other personal
intelligences. The momentous fact of the correlation of nervous with
psychical process, and the nourishment of the former by the great
world without, can to my idealism only mean the correlation of our
psychical life with. and its nourishment by, the world of intelligences
external to our own. Depend up~n it spirit-consciousness is the
reality, and the brain only phenomenon, 8Olid-seeming though it be. If
"the unconscioWl brain" is able, in the inspirations of genius, u to
pour," as Mr. Myers thinks, "a stream more than usually nutritioua
into the conscious channel," to me that can only mean a conscioua
.r.
Digitized by Google
•
1;0 JourlUlI qf Sockfg for P,gcllwfll Ruearcll. {Jail., 1886.
8tream of this character from surrounding intelligences, and from the
transcendent Eqo, which is one with the Divine, creative, universal
jdeas. An" unconscious brain "can pour nothing into a conscious
mind! And to speak of a "morbid excitement in part of a madman's
brain" making him fancy he sees and hears devils, is to pay onelielf
with words. The" morbid excitement," like alcoholic blood-poisoning,
may tnahu him to see and hear them-that is all it can do.
As to what Mr. Myers says of cruder conceptions belongingto a pre-
scientific age, I conf~ I bave always felt it extremely improbable that
men everywhere, and from the beginning of time, should have been all
wrong,and that only a few years ago they should first have beogun to be all
right. Worse than foolish, indeed, must he be who would depreciate the
resulta of scientific discovery, deeply interesting and momentous as they
are. I only object when Science affecta either to deny, or to explain
away things out of her own province, or distastE-luI to her own prophets.
because disturbing crude inductions made upon insufficient data. I hold
that a way ought to be found of conciliating the new facta with the old
theories, modified. It WBS right the age should direct so much attention
to physical phenomena. But let us not lose our spiritual organs, BS the
Proteus of Adelsberg lost his organs of vision in tile Cimmerian dark-
nessof his subterranean lake. And moreover, let us remember that our
psychical researchers have already committed ourselves to,conclusions,as
inferences from experiment, which are almost, if not quite, as heretical
and ridiculous in the opinion of some scientific men as that old ghost·
theory, upon the margin of which my cautious friends stand 80 timor-
ously shivering. Why, we are all bead over ears in scientific heresies
already I Take the leap, friends, and fear not I There are good swim-
ming mBSters in there, and their names are Wallace, Zollner, Crookes,
Barrett, Varley, ButIeroff, Fechner, and a host beside! The other men
of science do not, I fancy, even now see much difference between
You and me,
Tweedledum, and Tweedledee.
So in all good humour I conclude. If certain theories oommend them-
selves to certain minds, well and good ; let me seek no longer to depriTe
them of congenial food. For in theories, as in graver matters, Ie the
readiness is all."
P.S.-The writers admit that in what they term Ie veridical halluci-
nations" a real external object is presented in a visionary manner to the
Jllind, presumably through the higher centres; though perhaps it may
be through that inner psychical body, which Occultista,and our President
alike believe in. Certainly the object is not presented through the
ordinary channels of sense-perception. I only suggest an extension of
this admiBBion to cases of so-called hallucination,when the object is Dot
Digitized by Google
.'
JI1J., 1S86.] JourTIIII of 8ociet!llol' P',,,c],icrrl RelJearch. 171
to us perceptible; and I would rather call such livid abnormal percep-
tions NioJ& than luallucination.. It is, at any ratA.>, no disproof of their
objective character that Mr. Myers can show us local nervous centres,
which may possibly be instrumental in their production, and that is why
I can see but small use in his algebraic "fornnua for revelations." I
YE'ntured to call it a "belittling of the sublime," and to quote
Hinton's similar, but satirical formula for a quartet of Beethoven, viz.,
.. a scraping of horsetails on the intestines of cats."
Similarly, I only propose an extension of the principle, confirmed
,by our Society in hypnotic cases-(that a dominant suggestion, which
the entranced person when awake cannot resist, though unaware
of the source whence it emanated, viz., the will of the mesmeriser)-
to cases of "uncontrollable" impulse in madness, the hidden will and
suggestion then being from some unseen order of intelligence. I am,
however, quite aware that all such hypotheses are only tentative-if
you like, 6p«UlatitHI. But the probability of the spirit theory has to
he balanced against that of a rather self-contradictory theory, such as
"unconscious secondary selves" (indeed, Mr. Myers threatens us in
his last paper with more than two, with an indefinite number, all
unaware of each other!). It is possibly wiser to say, with Newton,
""ypothuu '7&O'I&ji:ngo." Yet the advance of knowledge has always
been assisted by happy guesses of the imagination. And I rather
think: that, while Physiology can give no explanation at all of OUI'
psychical pbenomena, new or old, we may be in solDe danger of mental
indigestion from a plethora of mere crude, not understood phenomena.
But I must say that an accusation of too tnucl. theory does not come
with good grace (rom the Spiritist camp, and where the Spiritist
hypothesis has been, so to speak, bolted, and that of VUlgal' fraud far
too confidingly ruled out of COUl't.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COM~nTTEE.
(Continwul. )
G.-I20
From Rev. Wm. S. GrilJuon, The Grove, Pluckley, Kent.
September GU~, Iss..
I do not know where my fonner pupil, the seer of the apparition, now ia,
80 that I cannot now ask him the question suggested, but being fully aware
of the importance in such cases of ascertaining the percipient's mental and
moral antecedenta, 1 did at the time ask him if he had ever before had any
perception of the kind, and I can say positively that he did not remember,
011 &ny previous occasion, either seeing, hearing, or feeling anything
abnormal. He bad, bow'.lver (88 I wrote before), on two occasiolls dl'e&lUed
L !'l
Digitized by Google
172 JOfWllal of &Citl!! for P8ychical Reseal'cll. [Jan., 1986.
of IlCenes which corresponded with real even' unknow;n to him at the time
of the dream. I endeavoured to get the narrative of these dreama from
him, under his own signature, in order to send to you, but either ftoom
unwillingneaa or negle.:t he baa failed to supply them as he promised.
EvidentJy he was of a sensitive "mediumiat.ic" temperament, but you mar
take it as certain that he never before had had any abnormal perception in
Ilis waking moments.
(Signed) WHo S. GJUGNOll'.
Tile apparition was, apparently, connected with a promise made at a alianco.
On the 21st December, 1882, about 5.30 p.m., I was on my way back
from the town of X-- to the village of H--. My way from the nearest
railway station Wl\II by a footpath which crosses a park, shortly before quit-
ting which it enters a belt of trees, continues througll them for about 100
yards, and quits them and the park together at a lodge-gate for a public road.
This road at once croaaea a river of no great size by a stone bridge, and t.llen
mounts a hill among some scattered houses. J uat as I was entering the belt
of trees above mentioned I saw in the dim light a village lad, as 1 thought,
coming towards me along the pat.ll, and, as he came close, I said .. Good
night" to him. As lle passed he turned his face towards me, and I then
noticed that his dre.. was that of a gentJeman, that he "'ore a college cap
such as are in use at P-- College, and that the features were mlmistakably
those of a former school-fellow who had (lied at the age, I think, of 13 or 14,
wllile I was at P-- College. Almost inatantJy after the figure passed me,
before My one could have gone more than 4 or 5 yards, I looked round.
There was no one to be seen. It was just possible that the person might have
suddenly darted under cover of the trees, but there was no apparent reason
for his doing 80. I did not feel startled at that time, and as 1 passed on
tllrough the belt of trees, it occurred to me that I must have fancied the
likeness. But when I was cro..ing the bridge, there, seated on the parapet,
WII.8 the very same figure I had seen before, in the same dre.., and with the
face turned full towards me. The features were beyond all doubt those ofmy
deceased school-fellow, but wit.h something fixed and waxy in the look of
them. The only pn.th to the bridge from the spot at which the figure firat
appelLred was the one I had followed. I am quite certain that no person
passed me from behind between the times of the first and second appearances_
This time I did feel a certain amount of disturbance of mind, and seemed
hardly able to mount the hill, tho foot of which I had reached. 1 .."
nothing further; but while cro88ing, lOme minutes later, a field belonging
t:l the house in H-- where I was then staying, I heard what seemed tho
BOund of footsteps on the road close behind me, but when I looked round
saw no one.
It may be as well to add that my acquaintance with the decea.ed had
been very slight. He was not in the same house or the same form with me
at P-- College, and, 80 far as I can recollect, I had never spoken to him,
or had, at moat, exchanged a few words with him once or twice.
It ought furtller to be stated that at a table-turning seance a day or two
before a spirit profe..ing to be that of the boy in quostion had promised
that on the 21st he would sbow "sometlling visible" to one or perhaps t"o
of the persons then present. I was not, however, at the time of t.\e
Digitized by Google
Ju., 1886.] Journal of Societ!lfol' Psgchical RllIefll'c/,. 173
apparition thinking at all about this announcement. On the contrary, while
I was croeaing thfl park and up to the moment of the apparition my mind
was tumed to matt.sl'B totally di1ferent. M. C.
The Grove, Pluckley, Kent.
July 12th, 1883.
My DEAR Sm,-I have endeavoured in vain to induce M. C., the author
of the annexed narrative, to allow his name and those of the places men-
tioned to appear in full. I can testify that the statement now initialled by
him coincides exactly with what he related to me and to othel'B in my house
within an hour after the occurrence. From a very intimate knowledge of
M. C., and of all the circumstances of the case, 1 am convinced that he
reported only what he believed he saw, and that he is not by any llleans a
person of predominant and constructive imagination. Twice, I think,
within three days after the 21st he passed at nightfall over the Bcene of the
apparition, and then with 311 impression and almost hope that his vision
would be renewed; but nothing occurred.
The Grove, Pluckley, Kent.
July 19Ut, 1883.
The school at which M. C. and the boy had met was not Clijwn, but
Cheltffiham College, and I have no reason whatever for supposing that the
boy had any connection with the locality of the apparition. The extremo
llightness of the previous acquaintance is a curious fact in the case. M. C.
probably knew 200 or 300 boy. at least at Cheltenham as well or better than
he knew the deceased. 'Vhen at a ".reance" the Dan1e was given, he merely
remembered the fact that a boy of that surnamo had died-the Christian
name he had never knoWll-Mld that his death had taken place at home-
where he did not know-from illneBB begun at school. A death at school
sometimes makes a strong impression on boy.' minds, and might serve as a.
spiritual connecting link, but a death at home is much less impressive, 3Ild
would have made very little impreBBion on M. C., to judge from my pretty
intintate knowledge of him. I feel sure that I have now given correctly tho
effect of his statement made at the time. He certainly said nothing then
about any vanishing of the apparition from under his eyes. The impreBBion
left on my mind was that he looked away from the figure, and hurried on
without again turning his eyes towards it. Three of the pupils now with me
were tlten at Hanbrook, and heard the whole story from M. C. just after I
did, and their impression agrees with mine exactly. So does that of my
daughter, who heard the story with me from M. C. as he told it for the
first time, immediately after the occurrence. I tltink this combination of
evidence more satisfactory than any statement of the boy's Owll could be
after an interval of six months and more. I believe you will be safe in
taking it that the apparition did not vanish under his eyes.
Wll. S. GRIGNON.
G.-472.
From Ml'B. Codd, Belmont Lodge, Eltham, Kent.
(The name of the house was given.)
September, 1884.
In 18'i2,my fatlter hired a house on Hampstead Heatlt for six weeks. Our
party consisted of my father, lllother, three brotltel'B, and myself. We took
gitized by (.oogI
174 Journal of SocietU .for P'gchical Re,earcA. [J.D•• 188G.
two (Jf our own aervants, but there was a third, who was the cook of the
gentleman who let 1111 the house. His name waa F. He wished one of
Ilia own aervants to be in the hOllae during his abaence, and 80 for the time
she became ours. From the first day of our going there I felt moat
uncomfortable, by reason of an indescribable aenaation of fear, hitherk'
unknown to nle. I could not bear to be alone for a moment, feeling that
another preaence was in the room. I was also troubled by many wlaCCOuntable
noises, one of which exactly reaembled the rustling of a sti1fsilk gown. Some-
times it appeared to be quite near me, as though it might be touching me ;
BOmetimes I heard it passing up or down stairs. I often heard a sigh, but I
never saw even the faintest vapour of an appearance. I was more or leu
disturbed in all parts of the hOlllle, but the room where all theae sensations
were strongest, and where I felt most awe-stricken, was the dining-room.
Neither my father nor mother were COneciOIlII of anything, and were vexed
with what they considered my foolishneu. On two occasions I heard my two
youngellt brothers, children of five and lIix years, having an altercation with
their nurse because they declared she came into their bedroom and made
luch a rustling tltat IIhe awoke them. She assured them she had not been
in their room after they were in bed. They said they even saw her, or some
woman who mUllt have been she. But, of COI1l'll6, it was almollt totally dark.
One Friday, after we had been a month in the houae, my aunt, Mias
Walton, come to lltay with 1111 until the following Monday. On the
Sunday afternoon, my father, brothers and I went for a walk. Our own
two lIervants were out, and my mother, who was not IItrong, was lying
down in her bedroom upstairs. My aunt, Dorothy Walton, and Mr. F:a
cook, and my mother were the only occupants of the house.
I became tired after I had been out lOme time, and retumed.homo by
myself, leaving my father and brothers to continue their walk. I found
my aunt reading the Collect and Psahns for the day, and sitting in a tiny
BOrt of balcony, which was at the top of the first flight of lltairs, her back
to the front door. I walked upstain, when she turned round to me,
amI said. "I have lIeen a spirit while you have been out." I asked her
lOme questions, the answen to which amounted to as fo11(._:-
She felt impelled to turn round and looked towards the front door,
when Ihe saw a pretty-looking woman, of about 30 years of age, come in
at the .pont door (which was alwaYI open during the day, there being a
garden), and turn into the dining-roolu. For a moment she thought
it mllIIt be lome neighbour. But the dress was old-fashioned, being made
in the style of 100 years ago. It was a silk gown of a kind known now
as cMne, and drab in colour. The lady's hair was thick and black, and
lliain-braided. My aunt felt rooted to the spot. She could not move for
lome time, but even then she .did not desceDlI into the dining-room, but
just turned round to continue her reading, wilen I came in.
I had not mentioned to her what illY feelings in the houae had been, and
I only said, "Come downstairs into the kitchen with me to Ann." Ann
was the aforementioned cook, to whom I ltad several times lpoken about the
llois!!1 and senaationl which worried me. She had alwaYI repudiated any
idea of the house being haunted, and UIIed to say that her master would be
extremely vexed if I spread such a report.
DiQitizedbyGoogle'
Ju.• l886.] Journal qf &cietll.f(W P8!1cllical Re8earch. li5
My aunt and I went below. where we found Ann, to whom I eaid, "N"w,
Ann, I have diacovered that thia hoU8e ia haunted, and if you do not answer
BOrne questiona I will put to you, I shall make inquiries in Hampstead on the
matter." She turned very pale. I eaid, "Who haunts thia hoU8e 1" She:
.. A lady."
I; "What ia she like 1" Slle; "Youngish, good.looking, with black
hair and freeh complexion."
I; "How dressed 1" She;" In a thick lightrcoloured silk dress."
Then, having broken the ice, she went on to eay that tllia appearance
haunted the whole house, but chiefly the dining.room and the bedroom
where my two youngest brother:. alept; that ahe (Ann) had seen her countlesa
times, and had Ileard the rustling of her dress atill oftener; that her late
miatreu, Mrs. F., had been much disturbed by the ghoat during her last
illness; tllat ahe (Ann) was too nervous ever to atay in the hoU8e by herself,
in consequence of what ahe eaw, and when Mr. F. went away and did not let
the house, ahe always had a friend to stay with her. She frequently eaw the
figure seated ill the dining-room, when she went to open the shutters in the
morning.
Soon after tllia we returned to town.
My aunt went BOme time after, I forget how long, to the house, to S8&
Ann, and to inquire more of her. But she had left the service oflIr. F.
L.-2305. (Thought-transforence.)
From Mr. Ruesell,. of Aden, Mintlaw, Aberdeenahire.
NOIJfmbeT 4th, 1885.
In the autumn of 1874, when at Berlin, I was most anxious to know what
1I'a8 happening in a remote part of the North of Scotland. Events of the
greatest poIISible consequence t() myself were occurring, and I could obtain
but little illfonnation, and that very unreliable, about them. Accidentally I
heard of a middle-aged WOIWU1, Frau Meyer, the wife of a bookbinder, living
wan obecure part of that capital, in very modest circumatancea, who had a.
marvellous talent for RCqusinting one wit·h what was going on at a diatance,
ILl also, to a certain extent, of foretelling the future. I called upon her,
and soch was her posit.ion, she being uneducated and quite of an inferior
claaa of life, that at that time(my knowledge ofthe language being sufficiently
luent for it. to have been almost impossible for her to have even recognised
me as a foreigner, much leu to identify my actusl nationality) she could
not possibly have guesaed who I was.
The procesa she employed was to pour the white of a raw egg into a
tumbler of cold water, and tllen to describe the meaning of the fantastic
forma &B8umed by the egg.
I may mention that during repeated visits to her, ehe tried to explain her
tlleoriea to me, which, however, 1 never could understand.
In the fint inatance ahe actually described to me the age and personal
a:>pe&rance of tbe indhidual in whom I was intereated ; hia surroundings,
alld the house he lived in, as having three doors, arid a room with a dome
but no windows; the country alao I fully recogniaed from her description.
After explaining, as was proved later on to be moet correct, Ilia then
176 Jotmml qf Sociei!1 for P,yc/dcal ]le1WJrch. [Jau.. l89S.
temperament and fecliDg1l, ahe told me ahe II&W him &tart on "long joumey
to a large capital (London).
At a vieit I paid her immediately afterwards ahe clearly dlllCribed to me
a room she 11&11' him in at " hotel, and a atormy interview he had with
another man, refuaing at first to aee certa.in papem, but eventually coneent-
ing ; aleo his audden return to the North. I aubsequently &8certa.ined the
nh801ute aocuracy of all that she had told me, both aa to date, interviewa, &c.
When describing the interview, ahe &BBerted it had tAken place the prerioUB
evening, which proved to be literally true.
For aeveral montha I 11'&8 able distinctly to follow the COUl'8e of events
in the remote part of Europe previoualy referred to, although far distant
from it. The temper, stAte of health, and influences by which the pel!lOn
in question 11'&8 aurrounded, &8 aleo the personal appearance and character
of thOle who surrounded him, 11'&8 elaborately laid before me during each of
the many visits I made to Frau Moyer. Eventually she told me one day
with great vehemence, that a woman whom ahe had previouall often referred
to, had aucceeded in extracting fronl tile man in whom r 11'&8 10 much
interested "signed document of great importance.
She told me ita existence 11'&8 unknown to any but the two aaid partie&,
and strongly urged me at once to acquaint my frienda with this tranaaction,
_uring me that the fact of the existence of the document having been
known to outsidera being represented to the giver of it, would cauae it at
once to be cancelled. I immediately reported the fact, but without giving
my authority for fear of ridicule, to the proper quarter, but waa not believed,
and there the matter reated.
For two montha and more I had frequent and mOlt intereating iJlterviewa
with Frau Meyer, aho, almOlt day by day, Darl"&ting to me the OOUl'8e of
events "bout which I had been unable to obtain detailed information from
othem, until at laat ahe told me she aaw a grave and a heame in the egg and
water tumbler, and that I ahould have a speedy aummons to take a long
journey. This I had to do immediately after that interview, and after my
departure abe told a friend of mine, who interviewed her, that she aaw I was
in much trouble, and that I W&8 instantly to be charged from her to take a
very firm and high tone in mattera.
Some weeka later my lawyer acquainted me, aaa great aecret,with the fact
of the woman prerioualy referred to poaaeaaing the dncument I had beeu
warned about, a aecret he believed to be unknown to anyone but himself
and the party intereated, &8 ita whole value consiated in its aecrecy until the
time came for its being utilised. The penon to whom I had written about it
montha before, who wu preaent on this occasion, then turned to the lawyer
and aaid, .. What a fool I am ! he" (pointing to myself) "told nle all about
this montha ago, and I would not believe him.It
I have little more to add to this narrativo than a fow detaila about Frau
Meyer; during our many interviews ahe invariably explained to me what
ahe aaw, and how ahe aaw it, but I never could follow her. Her poaition
being 80 humble and obscure, her fees were moat trifling; from people in her
own claas of life abe never asked more than the equivalent to a ahilling, and
from people like myaelf was most grateful for even the double of that sum. I
have since ascertained that royalty and the highest personages in the land
.1.... 1886.1 JOfWlUI1 01 &ei~t!Jlor P'1lc"ical }U,mrck. 177
ued to conault her, either in diaguiae or by deputy, particularly before a
war. That ahe could have traced anybody <,ut, 10 U to aaoertain about their
poeition, was a material impoesibility ; ahe lived without a lervant, tended by
ayoung niece, to whom ahe had in vain tried to teach her art. ,
ihe told me ahe had leamt the said art u a child from a dwarf, to whom
her family had ahOWD kindneu, and who, out of gratitude, taught it to her
in order that ahe might alway. poII8I8 a meana of livelihood.
J. G. F. RUSSELL.
[Though there are elementa in thia C&I8 which auggeat 'independent
clairvoyance,' it ia not impouible that the whole may be accounted for by
thought-tranaference, &I the incidenta may have corresponded with Mr.
RlIIIIell'. anticipatioDi or .Ulpiciona. Some of the elemanta, at any rate,
8u"eat nothing but thought-transference: e.g., it ia hard to imagine how 1\
penon'. starting "on a long joumey" to a particular place, or hia "sudden
return to the North.. could be viewed by any momentary extension of the
diviner's IeDle-perceptioDl.]
L.-2356_ (Thought-transference.)
From Mias Curtia, of 15, Parade Villu, He1ne Bay, Kent.
Nowmber 12th, 1885.
About the year 18'7 or 18(8, the Dr. Lee who wrote a book on the
German Baths, consulted with two friends intereated on the subject of
elairvoyance, and made an arrangement with Alexia Didier, a clairvoyant at
Paris, and M. Marcillet, hia meameriaer, to come to Brighton. There
WII to be DO public exhibition, but only a8ancea at private hOUIIeI, and about
12 per80DI to be prollent, and each to have an opportunity of trying
.\..Iexia in the manner he or ahe wished; and Dr. Lee wu to be at each
Rance and make notes. I wu at Brighton at the time, and before going to
188 Alexia, wrote hia name on a piece of paper, and doubled it three or four
till18l,and then put it in a box that had heldsteel pena,and tied it up. When
my tum came, I gave the box to Alexia, and he began reading the letters on
the outaide. I told him there was a paper inside I wanfAld him to read, and
Dr. Lee uked me to give my hand to Alexia, and think of the worda.
_.uexia then said, "The tint letter ia A, the second, L... I &DIwered
.. Y."; and he tumed the box, and wrote Alexia Didier on the back.
Before I saw him the second time 1 took a amall smelling bottle out of ita
laather cue, put two aeals inaide-one so&1 W&II in the form of a buket. I
gave the cue to Alexia, and uked him how many. things were wide, and
he laid two, and they were 1Ieale; he took a pencil and paper and drew
them; they were then taken out, and the drawings exactly relleDlbled them.
Some one &liked if Alexia could read what wu on one of the leala; he said
he could not, beca11l8 it was written backwards. Dr. Lee asked me to give
my hand; I thought of the word, and _.uexia directly said, "Croyez," which
1flII correct. [This, however, is no teat; u we find, on inquiry, that Alexia
had taken the aeala into hia band, and had had an opportunity of reading the
word.] I than asked him two or three queetiona about the perlOns
who had given me the aeala, and he made a mistake, and said the lady whu
Digitized by Google
1i8 Journal 01 80cistg lor P8gchical Ruearc". [Jo., 1886.
had given me one was in England, whereas ahe W'II8 in Mrica. Alexia was
unequal, aowe days telling almoat everything, and other daya failing in
eeveral thinga. The note. Dr. Lee made were printed, and I had a copy, but
gave it away.
L.-2357. (Collective Hallucination.)
From a lady who deairea that namea may not be printed.
October 28th, 1885.
In the month of November, 1843, myaelf, my eldeat aiater, and the man-
aen..nt were driving home from a amall town to our paraonage in the
country. The time might be about half-past 4 or 5 p.m. Aa we came alowiT
up the hill by the churchyard ,,·all, we MW a gentlemau in walking coaIiumo,
going into the veatry door. We both exclainled, "That'a papa," and the
luan George Mid at the aame moment, "Why there'a the maater." My
father 11'88 then ill, and away from home many milea away. He died the
following January 23rd, 1844. He wore a particular long cloak which I
allould have rocogniaed anywhere, and which he had luany yean, and wore 88a
looae wrap. [What ia meant clearly ia that the cloak in which the figure
appeared to be dreaaed exactly reaembled that of the narrator'a father.}
He looked exactly like himaelf, and 11'88 going in by the amall veatry
door he ueed to enter tho church by when going to take duty. I do not
think he looked at oa, bUI; aeemed intent. on entering·the church, and die-
appeared inaide. We were all much frightened, and _rohed rollDd the
houae and church but could Bee no one, and no one had been aeen about.
I recollect the occurrence 88 if it had been yeaterday, and, aa I write, Bee
all diatinctly in my mind'a eye.
The man-eervant ia dead ; my aia1;8r begato corroborate myaccollDt.
S.R.
Myaiater has alwaya, when I have talked of the vision, Mid ahe MW it eo
likewiae, and ahe reiterated that only laat aummer, but ahe ia not equal to
write about it. 1quite aee the weak point if the church 11'88 not aearched
inaide. 1 can't My it 1t"a6, nor can I My it 11'88 not. Old George, the man, W'II8
lIloat fond of hia m88ter. and may have gone into the church, but I can't II&Y.
I 0111y know we were all ao terribly frightoned. The mon W'II8 audden, ..
true to life, and even to the particular long cloak, all gathered in to a collar
duped at the throat. I ought to have aid that the figure _riled in the act
of going in by the veatry door; we did not aee him enter, DB we drove on in
great fright to the houae. My father 11'88 then under medical treatment at
Northampton.
MrII. R. add. detaila, ahowing the abaolute impoaaibility that her father
could really have come to the apot where he 11'&8 Been, unknown to all biB
friend.; and add.: You will Bee the utter impoaaibility of biB having left
Northampton, being a dyill9 man, eo to apeak, when admitted. Then, again,
the church 11'&8 alwaya kept locked, the keya at the paraonage, supposing for a
moment that we aaw a living figure. I recollect tllal. inquiry waa made of
the villagera 88 to any atrange gentleman having been aeen about, and the
anawer was .. No."
Digitized by Google
la, 181!6.) Joumal of Society for P8!1cAiCII1 Reuarcll. 1;9
L.-2358.-AI ps
From Mrs. Fielding, Yarlington Roctory, near Bath.
N oren,oo·, 1885.
The other night my husband and I dreamt at the 'fUM hoor, the 1I&Dl~
dream-a subject on which neither of us had been thinking for months.
It was a dream of wandering about our first home, and in it looking at the
lI&IDe spot.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Fielding adds :-
I do not remember anything more about the dream I spoke of. It was
17 years since we left Linacre Court, near Dover, the place my husband
and I dreamt of at the lame hour, as we had been awake about 3 o'clock a.m.,
and we both dreamt of walking about. the old place-and the old woodman
-it.. before we awoke, and we had not been either of us thinking of it in
the least.
My husband laughs at all such things as having any import, but to please
me wrote the enclosed :-
I remember awaking one morning about three weeks ago, and my
wife telling me she had had a long dream about our first married home. I
said: .. How strange, as I have been dreaming the same just before I
awoke."
J. M. FII:LDUW.
L.-2359. (Collective Auditory Experience.)
Miss Ellen Twynam, of 8, Waterloo Place, Southampton, early in 1884,
filled up a form with the information that 14 or 15 years before, when in
good health, she had several times, by day and night, had an auditory
hallucination. She added :-
The voice was not that of anyone I knew, but lOunded like a clea.."
reined woman's voice.
The voice called my name, "Ellen," distinctly many times, and over a
period of lOme months. It was heard not only by myself but by others, and
onone special occasion by everybody in the bouse at the same moment. I was
also in the habit ofhearing the lOund, as of a person walking about my room,
and the sweeping of a dress over the Hoor was very plain, though I never
laW any pnlsence.
ELLL"f B. TWYNAX.
In answer to inquiries Miss Twynam says :-
No~ 12th, 1885.
I had myself repeatedly hlmrd the voice calling me at various intervals,
extending over lOme months, and had mentioned the fact to the different
members of the family, but never to my knowledge in the tfreaence of the
I8mmlil. I have always been laughed at, and told it was only my fancy, and
no one then had heard it but myself. On the occasion referred to, I and my
ailter were in the drawing-room, and my mother and aunt, who were both
invalids, were in their respective bedrooms upstairs, on opposite sid,s
of the house; while my brother was in another sitting-room downstail'l, on
the other side of the hall; and tbe servanlil were both in the kitchen.
Digitized by Google
180 (JAIl., 1886.
'Which was an underground one. I aud my sister heard the yoice dis-
tinct.ly call "Ellen, Ellen 1"-a clear, high, refined woman's voice, but witil
something strange and unusual about it. My sister at once noticed it,
turning to me and saying, "There, I have heard it myself this time." I
still, however, thought it might really be lOme one, so went to my mother,
asking whether she had called. She aaid •• No," but she had heard IOme-
olle calling me, Imd thought it was my aunt. I went to IWlI", and she said
exactly the same, only thought it was my mother. 1 then went to my
brother. He aaid "No ;" but had heard someone call quite plainly. I then
went down to the servants, and asked whether they had heard anyone calling.
They said" Yes;" they thought it was mistre88. But there was nothing
about them to lead me to think they were playing any trick, and they ha.d
never any idea that I had heard this voice before. The voice 80unded t..
me R8 though it were above me, and yet very close to me, and it gave mo a
strange uncomfortable feeling. I do not think it was the servants, as they
answered 80 naturally, as a matter of course, that it was their mistre88 who
had called. Our house stood in a garden near the village, but I am sure ii.
was no one from outaide, as the voice was 10 decidedly il. the house, and
apparently close to us. MV brother is away at present, but when I have tlle
opportunity I will ask him whether he remembors the circumstances, and if
he <).088 I will let you know. Of the rest of those who heard the "call"
80me are dead, and others so much dispersed that I do not know where tn
find them. It struck us all at tlle time as being very strange, but, as nothing
seemed to come of it, it gradually p&88ed away, and wo thought no more of
the circumstances. I hope the above account is such as you desire. There
is nothing vory striking about it, but I believe it is exactly what happened
at the time.
MiBB Twynam's eister says ;-
I perfe<'tly remember the occurrence alluded to by my sister. I distinctly
heard tIle voice calling her name, and noticed at the time that it was very clear,
and resembled a woman's voice, but v,.ith a strangely unnatural sound which
attracted my attention. I remember turning to her and saying, "I have
heard it for myself tIlis time," as she had mentioned tlle fact of repeatedly
hearing her name called, but I had ne,'er heard it, though other people had
done 80 before ; but on this occasion everybody in the house heard it at the
same time. I have no doubt whatever that the voice came from 110 one in
the house.
L.-2360.-Ad po
A lady, Mias H., whose name andaddreas maybe given to private inquirers,
and who would gladly have allowed their publiCdotion had friends not been
unwilling, filled up a printed form with the information that on Thursday,
November 16th, 1854, about 10 o'clock at night, she had had a vision of an
nti mate friend, who died tll&t evening at 7. On E. G.'s writing for par-
iculars, she replied;-
"I had had 16 hours' travelling in tIle interior of a diligence, crossing
gitized by (.oogI
laa.,1886.] JourftlJl rd Societ!l lor P'!lMical &lefJrcN. 181
the Apenninos from Bologna to Florence. I was perfectly well, but;
unasually tired. I was in the Hotel Europa, in Florence, And WIllI quite
wideawake,not having had the nece.uary moments in which to comtx- myaelf
to sleep. My eister had just fallen aaleep. My friend ,tood at theaida of the
bed neareat me, near the foot, and looked at me fixedly. She wae in whito
aod looked euctly ae abe did in life. She was an old lady, and had been
almost bed-ridden for long. She had taken very keen interut in our Italian
tour. I lost my pruence of mind, and woke my aiater. 1 alIo called out to
my father, who wae in an adjoining room, not yet aaleep, but too tired to do
more than anawer, though he remembered the circumstance of my calling
to him the next morning. Directly this alarm was ahown the vision dis-
appeared. It wae both vivid, and produced A IUpenwturat aensation which.
I never before or aince experienced to anything like tlle aame extent.
"E. H. H."
We find from the Tirrw obituary tlmt the death took place on Thursday.
November 16th, 1854. Inquiries have been made at the hotel in FlorencE',
in order to obt.:ilil confirmation of the date of Mias H.'a atay there ; but th&
hotel changed hAnda a few years Jater, and the information cannot be got.
Mig H. has experienced only one other hallucination, and that wae "in
the height of a. aevere illness," when ahe fancied that her maid was at th&
bedside.
In answer to inquiries, Mias H. writes that the aister who waa with ber
cannot recall the occurrence.
.. The fact is ahe only awoke for an instant, and as ahe is 9 yeMII younger
than myself, and I saw ahe bel~~ed I had only been dreaming this, I apared
her. I had not fallen aaleel'. I did not argue the point with her, or refer to
it again for some long time aiter. It was the aame with my father. I called
out Mrs. W.'II name, and he referred to it all Adream in the morning. But I
wnfo;Ud in a lIister, then recently Dlarried to a Norfolk clergyDlaD, who WAa
very near my own age. I wae the more led to do this ae the lady who atood
near me was her hUllband's mother." The account goes on to say how
exceptionally intereated the lady had been in the route and experiences of
the travellers; and concludes thUII : "In thoRO days such things were subjecta
of ridicule and unbelief more than they now are, alld I am surprised bow
lightly I took what yet I felt positive was no dream."
The following is a latter to Mias H., from the sister to whom she men-
tioned her experiellces:-
December 4U" 1885.
My DE.t.R ELlSB,-I fully remember your naming the rieion of Mrs.
W., which you had on the very evening on which ahe died. We com-
pared notes faithfully at the timo; and it was moat remarkable, because abe
bad not been viaibly worse, and died at the Iaet suddenly. She had thought.
a great deal about you being in a RoDlaD Catholic country at the time of
lOme great council, and had named in two or three letters that abe abould
be glad when you got home ; so you were on her mind. I believe you named.
it in a letter, but I can't find it. But I am as .ure of the fact of your felling
me(on your retum home, and coming here on the way) aU particula,.. ae if it.
'WII yeaterday"-the rooms en ",ite, and our father hearing you call out to
Mamie, who had fallen aeJeep before you; and you naming .. Mrs. Wo'"
Digitized by Google
..
182 Jout'nnl ofSoc~tu.fot· P8ucMca! Reuarcll. [Jan., 1886.
to father, and he, supposing it wu a dream, trying to BOOthe you. And you,
though feeling SUTe you were awake, yet tried fa th,,1k it was a 80rt of dream
"u when one awaketh." The first news you received from England wu the
account of the peaceful and rather sudden death of one who was renowned
for energy of spirit all her life, and who WIIo8 full of imagination and great
love for you. This is my statement. The dates were ca.refrdly compared,
that I am sure of. My husband is u certain as I am of all I BaY.-Your
affectionate siste.
)1. A. W.
L.-2361.-Ae pn
From Mrs. Clerke, Clifton Lodge, Farquhar-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Not:embe"18Ul, 1880.
)Iy two boys returned to BChool on the 18th September. They intended
to try the route 1'icI Swindon and Andover, on account of the trains being
more convenient, instead of going by Paddington.
They left home about 3 o'clock, and I heard no more about them until
the Monday following, but I wu very uneuy all the evening, and about 9.30
I remarked to my daUjlhter, .. I am perfectly convinced that thOBC boya lIave
never got to Marlborough ; I am quite sure they are walkillg about the rood.
this minute." She Mid, "What UODBeDBe ! of course they are all right. Gus"
(the youngest) "is so 88nsible, he never would make a mistake." I said, "I
don't know, but I feel quite sure they have missed one train after another,
and have never got there." On tho llonday following I beard from them.
They had miMed the train at Waterloo, had then gone to Paddington, missed
the special there, and had gone bya later, which, by a curious combination
of circumstances, had landed them at Woodborough. They got out, mistaking
it in the dark for Marlborough, and only found out their mistake too late,
and had walked 11 mUes on a road unknown to them, and got to their school
at 1 o'clock in the morning. They managed to scale the walls, and fOUDel a
clUB-room open, where they got what sleep they could-very little.
M. CLEJU[]l.
Mi.. Clerke corroborates u follows :-
NOl!embe,· 30th, 1885.
I remember distinctly, "hen my brothers returned to school, that my
lDother remarked 88veral times to me that she felt quite sure that they were
walking about the roads somewhere. We found out afterwards that it waa
just R8 my mother said, and, at the time she spoke, they actually were
,valking to Marlborough.
H. F. B. CLERltB.
[In describing the incident, Mrs. Clerke especially dwelt on her impres-
sion that her sons were wanderitlg on t'OOd&. This particular idea seems a
far 1888 likely one to have been purely subjectively caused, through
matenw apprehension, than that of some calamity, such &8 a. railway
accident. It wu also a very unlikely thing to occur in reality. Mrs. Clerke
is the. very reverse of a nprvous or fanciful person.]
Digitized by Google
J_.,I886.] Journal of Societ!/ for P8!Jc!.ical lJ,Pllearch. 183
------
CORRESPONDENCE.
ExpEJI.IlUINTS IN TuOUGHT-TlUNSFERENl'E MA.DE NOVEMBER 28TH, 1885.
We have received the following account of experiments in Thought-
transference from Mr. Octavius Beatty, of Exeter College. Oxford, who
contributed a paper on the subject to the JounlUl for last September. The
experiments cannot, unfortunately, be continued RS tho ladies who carried
them out find that they produce sleeplOBllne8B .and headache.
The agent and percipient are listers, and Mr. Beatty infonlls us that
there is a remarkably strong sympathy between them, and that they oc-
caaionally dream the sarno dreams. &c. They do not wish their names to
be published, though they are willing to give them to persons genuinely
interested in the experiments, but Mr. Beatty has known them for many
years, and has every confidence in them. Moreover, the experiments were
carried out in his presence &lid under his superintendence.
We give the method of experimenting, and the results, as well lUI 111'.
Beatty's comments on them, in his OWll words :-
"The percipiflnt was blindfolded while the card was written doWll. ~o
pack was used; the agent merely thought of a card," and then wrote it
down in a book. The percipient sat near the middle of a small, round
drawing-table, the agent near, but looking in a different direction. Tho
percipient took her hand, and after about a minute told the card chosen. I
then compared her answer with what was written in the book.
PERcIPIENT, M. L
CARD CHOSEN.
1. Ace of Hearts.
2. Five of Spades.
3. Four of Heart..
4. Ace of Spades.
5. Six of Hearts.
6. Ace of Clubs.
7. Six of Clubs.
8. Four of Spades.
9. Four of Clubs.
10. Eight of Hearts.
AGENT, A.L.
CARD GL"ESSED.
Ace of Hearts.
Three of Spades.
Eight of Hearts.
Ace of Clubs.
Six of Hearts.
Three of Clubs.
Six of Clubs.
Nine of Spades.
Five of Clubs.
Eight of Hearte.
RElIARKS.-Four complete succe8Bos. It is noteworthy that only once
was the percipient wrong in the suit and always right in the colour.
In experiment No. 10 the percipient said first, "Three of Hearts." I
asked whether that was right. Before the agent had replilld she said, .. It'l
either the three or the eight." " Which is it 1" I asked. .. I think the
eight."
• We think this is to be regretted, since the agent might have a tendency to
chOO86 the card within certain limite or in certain 8uoceaeions, which might be uncon-
RCiously perceived by the percipient, and this would to IIOme extent affect the chances
of bet' guet!llinS- right. If the card were chosen at random from a shuffled pack the
c.:hanCCII each time of the percipient's guess being right would be 1 to 52.-ED.
gitized by (.oogI
184 Journal of &cin1lfor PqcAtcal&HtlrcA. [Ja1l., l88&.
In no case was there a aecond gu8IIL
PUClPIE!,(T, A. L AGENT, M. L
CARD CBOSU.
1. Three of Hearts.
2. Two of Clubs.
3. Six of Diamond..
,. Four of Spades.
5. Five of Hearts.
6. Three of Diamonds.
7. Eight of Spades.
8. Six of Clubs.
9. Two of Clubs.
10. Ace of Spad811.
CABD GUESS.D.
Ace of Spada
Two of Clubs.
Six of Hearts.
Four of Spades.
Nine of Spad811.
Eight of Hearts.
Eight of Spadee.
Niue of Clnbs.
Two of Clnbs.
Wrong. (I omit-ted to note card
gu8llll8d lIDMCOUDtably.)
RzllUBKS.-The percipient was not 80 succeuful .. to colour, still abe
11''' generally right in this respect."
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY OATALOGUE.
The JolkMin9 additioM haN bun made "nu la6t month.
CBOUIGNEAU (Dr. Georges) Etude clinique et exptirimentale sur 1&
vision mentale......................................................... PaN, 1884,
DascoUXTIS (Gabriel) Do fractionnement des operations ctSrebralea
PaN, 1882
DUJlONTPALLIBR. De l'action vaao-motrice de la suggestion chez lea
hyat6riques hypnotiaablea (Gazette da HOpitaux, 1885, p. 619)
PaN,I&
HmcoURT (J.) Le Magn6tisme Animal en dehora de l'hyaWrie (&rue
&iefltVique, 1884, i., 812) ..........................................Pam, 1884,
LGNIN (Paul) De quelques efFete des excitations periph6riquea chez
lea hyaWro-epilept.. 1'6tat de velie et d'h,ypnotiame PaN, 1884,
OCSOBOWICZ (Julien) • sur Ie sens de toucher et Ie sens du
magn6tiame (&we 8cimtQiqm, 1884, i, 553)..................Pari.. 1884,
D. RoeHAS (A.) La. levitation, ou l'enlllvement des corpe (.Rft"..
8cientijiqlle, 1885, ii., 336) ..........................................Paria, 1885
BUNDKL (Frana) Kritik dar Commiaaariaohen Berichte und
Protokolle tiber die Somnambiile O. Hohne ..................Freiberg. 1MO
RiiBlON (J. 0.) Berichte und Protokolle tiber die Sogenannte
Somnambiile ......................................................Draden. lMO
L.uon.. Geachichte eiuer Bellseherin ala Beitrage zur Lehre dar
Porencephalie. (Archi. fUr P_ych. XV.) ...............&riin, IBM
PICK: (Arnold) Von BeWUBlltaoin in Zuatirlden 80gennanter
BeWUBlltloaigkeit. (Arch•• fUr P~. XV.) ...............&riin. 188t
RiiJID (C.) Auafiihrliche hiatoriache Daratellnng einer h6chat
merkwUrdigen SomnambtUe ................................•8tuttgart, 1821
Suor (Prof. G.) L'origiue dei Fenomeni Paichici .........Milaao. 1&
Digitized by Google
