{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_k_nde_4676.html","mytitle":"Mark K NDE 4676","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark K NDE 4676  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2368 Mark K NDE 4676  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was stationed aboard the USS Prairie in the Philippines, we had a ship's party on Grande Island there, I was scuba diving for coral, I was almost bitten by a sixteen foot long dark grey shark, I managed to get to shore unharmed I thought, I did not feel the toxic coral embed in the bottom of my foot.

I showed my shipmates the shadow of the shark just off shore twenty-five feet away, but was unable to utter a word due to sheer terror of almost being caught and eaten. After a half hour or so, my friends and I were going back to the ship by shuttle boat. I passed out and fell into the bottom of the boat face down. My friend Billy got me onto the ship, into the medical lab, where after some efforts there I was pronounced dead on the Navy ship. When I sat up twenty-nine hours later, there was a doctor in a lab coat nine feet from me, in shock from fear, urinating inside his white gown. I wondered what I was looking at, and asked myself in my head, why was this doctor paralyzed with fear in his eyes looking at me and urinating on himself.

At that point, I told him he was urinating on himself, and he asked in return, have you looked at yourself lately. As I rolled my head to the left to view my arm at my side, I realized I was in a Morgue with a toe tag on my left big toe, with a white sheet that was covering all but my face, due to arising.

What I saw was my dark-purple dehydrated arm with orange-tinged veins. I felt better than I had in years, full of energy, as if I just woke up Sunday morning without a care in the world.

The doctor informed me of the coral in my foot, and that I was deceased for twenty-nine hours, and proceeded to show me the brainwave chart, stretched out across the floor, with no activity on the roll.

He then stopped and asked me was there anything I remembered, was there life after death. He was so excited at just asking the question, so I answered him with the most honest recollection of the experience I could.

I was in a grey cloud room, with an elderly man and woman.  They were about sixty-eight years old and sitting on a grey bench. I could not see where the corners in the room were, and it bothered me. As the cloud shaped door opened, and a being which I knew was there, but couldn't see persuaded me by calling my name, through the door. I could not see anything but light past the exit of the door until I stepped onto a beach, and I was there, so were hundreds of fully clothed robed people also, but none would look at me in the eye, for as far as I could see down the beach. I looked down to see my body as to find out why they would not acknowledge me with a glance, when I realized I had no body to look at, no torso, legs or feet, I was looking straight down at the sand. I raised my arms to view them, and no arms were seen by me.  It did not alarm me in any way. I just felt energy and I liked it. 

I then saw a man in an earthen, light and dark brown dual cloth robe.  He was looking me in the eye from two hundred yards down the beach. As I noticed there was a colossal eggshell textured ROOF over the sun and the ocean, and all of the planet I felt I was on, but I felt it was not earth as I know my planet.

I kept my attention on the man as he walked all the way to me.  When we were face to face, I was focused on his radiant light blue eyes. I realized he looked like the Caucasian picture of Jesus that I had seen all my life in the churches I had attended. I was feeling absolutely gleeful as he told me in a vary compassionate calm voice, 'You are not supposed to be here yet.' That is when I sat up off the slab in the ship's morgue as the doctor almost died of sheer fright, since I had died the day before.

I now have an extra ESP sense, and have premonitions a lot, sometimes I can see in a different light spectrum with my eyes where even trees emit a light and so does the earth.

I no longer fear death, but sometimes await it an in a longing for the peace I felt, during my experience.

I also sense evil people before they make any contact with me.

I know people before I meet them.  Upon meeting them, I say what they are saying as they speak the words, and it shocks them.

I meet people in dreams, and then in real life weeks later, and every time it was in an effort to save a third party from harm.

I cannot explain it all, but it was my wake up call.

I do know the nine hundred people on my ship never quite looked at me the same again. As they were all advised of my death, and the next week I was back to work.

I did drink four gallons of water.  When I woke that day, I was purple, orange, and dehydrated.  I did not urinate for four days after drinking the water. I found it odd that I knew I needed exactly four gallons of water in my body - no less, and no more.  It was if my consciousness already knew what to ask for.

I have died several other times, motorcycling hit by drunk hit and runner in Auburn, Washington. 1985, the doctor was my surgeon.

Cliff diving in Spokane, Washington, 1978.

Heart attack Vancouver, Washington 2009.

And not forgetting falling off a ninety-foot cliff at Crystal Mountain, Snoqualmie Pass, Washington. When I was a teen, my ski Emergency Responder on the mountain that day, and was also my math teacher at Hilltop Elementary School in Seattle, Washington.

All are documented, as was my being beaten to death by a Colorado Cop with a Billy club a block from my father's porch in Broomfield, Colorado 1986.

I guess I'm still not supposed to be there - 'Yet'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9-09-1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Toxic Coral Poisoning.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Toxic coral imbedded in my foot.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Looking into the eyes of a man I knew was not just a man, but Godlike, and he could read my thoughts and feelings. I had no physical body I could see, but he saw me from a great distance and communicated with me just fine verbally.  And the Overwhelming feeling of Joy the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt there was no time at all. I had no rush or worries.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, colors, textures, smells, hearing enhancement, light perceptions, floating without walking, visual permanent memories.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt and heard sounds from the waves on the beach, but it felt as if I knew all within that realm. Total conscious wisdom.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Grey Cloud Room, forty feet by thirty feet, so it seemed, but I could not focus on the corners within the room, this led through a cloudlike door to the Beach.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Human looking, in robes all along the beach, not one of them would look at me, other than the Jesus looking man. He walked a straight path through them to get to my location, some two hundred yards.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I walked to the door out of the grey cloud room, I could not see the beach through the doorway until I was on the sand. (One foot or so.) The Light was too intense, but foggy as a solid. Like an illuminated sheet over a doorway.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     An Ocean Beach with the Sun Shining warmly with a Roof over the entire thing.  Sun and all.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderment, Joy, Happiness, Light Hearted, Contentment, Love, Compassion. Confusion, as no other persons there would look at me no matter what I did.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew my wife by face and eyes, and two sons some seventeen years before we ever met.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was in wonder how a planet that big could have a roof over even the sun. As if we were in a round building the size of Jupiter or bigger. The color was that of an eggshell with the same textured look. I sensed it was hundreds of feet thick, and that space was on the outside of the roof.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a special prayer to my creator that is specific to me; I've had fire trucks called to my church, with reports of thirty foot flames coming from the roof, when the trucks arrived. I stopped praying, and the flames dissipated from above the church, and there was no sign of fire or smoke damage to the building, states my father - it really spooked him and my mom, and the congregation.

  I now visit All denominational churches when I choose, I felt no prejudices from soul to soul when I was in that realm.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a special prayer to my creator that is specific to me; I've had fire trucks called to my church, with reports of thirty foot flames coming from the roof, when the trucks arrived. I stopped praying, and the flames dissipated from above the church, and there was no sign of fire or smoke damage to the building, states my father - it really spooked him and my mom, and the congregation.  I now visit All denominational churches when I choose, I felt no prejudices from soul to soul when I was in that realm.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I now have an extra ESP sense, and have premonitions a lot, sometimes I can see in a different light spectrum with my eyes where even trees emit a light and so does the earth.  Also see details in main narrative.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I live for every moment here, and have shown my friends and family I have a sense to know things before they transpire, and use it to help.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I now have an extra ESP sense, and have pre premonitions a lot, sometimes I can see in a different light spectrum with my eyes where even trees emit a light and so does the earth.

  I have had countless times where I know I have been there and done that before. In a dream I shared with a friend, I woke up scared to death I had just ran over a boy chasing a soccer ball with my car; he had stepped out between two parked cars after the ball. I drew her a picture of the street and the cars and the houses, and told her of the horrific dream minutes after I had had the dream. Six months later, she was with me in Gladstone, Oregon, neither of us had been there before, on my way to a job site, to pre-scout the location. I suddenly slammed on the brakes as I recognized the trees on the street, and Margo was looking at me in sheer fear, as she saw nothing in the road, as the car lurched to a sudden stop out bounced a soccer ball between two parked cars, and then the same boy from my dream. I did not hit him, but waved for him to get the ball. He smiled at me - the dream saved his life, and Margo never doubted me again, she knew without me telling her, as she stated.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Many Parts.

  Cloud room, elderly folks wondering how long they were there.  Entity at doorway to the beach.  Roof over the whole sky.  Sun under a roof.  Jesus on the beach with sandals and a robe.  Others on the beach.  No cars, roads buildings, planes or industrial like noises.  Color of the sand and ocean.  Greenness of the vegetation.  Warmth of the sun.  Being told I wasn't to be there - 'YET'. (Which makes me think I will be sometime.)

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife swears by my ESP. We changed outcomes of many events we are aware of, and so are others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have died several other times. See main narrative for details.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After all these years, not one sight, smell, or sound or feeling is missed when I recall it. I've been crying typing this entire story, because of the vividness of the experience. I want every being that exists to know the Joy I felt.

  And the Power of my spirit I felt was a singularity, mobile, alive, aware, interacting, conscious, with thoughts, feelings, and memory without a body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel it in my soul, and long to return as soon as I am allowed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Not even close.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel it was more real than the life I live here most of the time on earth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Posting of artworks depicting events and things seen, and persons interacted with.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_k_nde_4676.html