{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark M NDE 3017","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark M NDE 3017  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1067  Mark M NDE  3017  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

One of my earliest memories 'Drowning' (Washington):

When I was about five years of age, my oldest sister Cherline took my younger sister Lori and I to a local swimming hole in Pasco, Washington. Lori wanted Cherline (about age sixteen). Lori was going to go out into the Columbia River and get her. Lori was only about three. I remember telling her, 'You're too young! You'll drown!'

I said, 'I'll go get her.'

I walked out into the water, walking toward my sister and cousin, Cheri. I hit a drop-off. I was bobbing up and down, drowning. I heard Cheri say, 'Isn't that your brother?'

Now I was floating above the water, looking down at my body lying on the beach, a lifeguard was bending over me, giving me mouth to mouth, I assume. The next thing I knew, I was back in my body, I spit up, sat up, he asked me if I was okay, and I said, 'Yeah.'

When I was young, I was always afraid of the water, but didn't understand why. I had this memory, but I didn't know if it was a dream from my childhood or not. In my late twenties, I asked my older sister about this. She was shocked I remembered the incident - she told me it happened. This was my first out of body experience and the beginning of a very strange life.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    about 1966

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I drowned.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   See above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      While floating above my body, I can remember a calmness. I'm assuming because the body is the bed of emotions, I don't know. All I remember is 'peace'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Absolutely no emotion. Maybe because I was so young, I don't know.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     At that time, no. But I am a seer. Been a seer my whole life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   'Well, my father is a minister.  I was too young to have any ''beliefs''.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     I was so young. My father is a Non-denominational Minister. My personal beliefs can change daily. All I want is truth.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   This is a very long and complicated answer.  Let's just say I'm a searcher who came out of very conservative values.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I was so young. My father is a Non-denominational Minister. My personal beliefs can change daily. All I want is truth.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I would say no, but just the knowing there is life outside the body is something I came to know at a young age.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  To an extent, I'd say anyone who has left their body and tried to convey it to others will change your relationship with them. Noticeably or not.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   I was very young during my NDE. I've had many OBE's since.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Many gifts and strange events throughout my life. Did it begin then, at my drowning or not, I don't know.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I'm a poet, songwriter. I started writing things about my life about ten years ago. I think everything I've ever written is somehow influenced by these events.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     I just tucked it away in my five year old mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     My life has been littered with unexplainable things. What IS reality anyway?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Yes if you mean by 'reproduced' as meaning leaving your body again. Mostly in a dream state.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      All my life I've felt more like an observer than a participant of this life. I kind of think it began here.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_m_nde.html