{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_possible_nde_7976.html","mytitle":"Mark Possible NDE 7976","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark Possible NDE 7976  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4137 Mark Possible NDE 7976  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went through a season of being extremely sick after the loss of a job and followed by the death of my Father. I couldn't function to even drive my car across town. I had severe hypoglycemia. It was so bad at night that while I was sleeping I would pass out in my sleep and wake up from adrenaline jolting into my system. To combat this, I tried to keep food by the bed to snack on during the night, but I was severely weakened and nothing was really helping my condition. I had seen many doctors during this period and they all claimed that I was perfectly fine. They had failed to check my hormone levels, which were very low.  I barely had enough cortisol to get me through the day. Anyways . . .

I actually had some strange occurrences during this season as well as two NDEs.

The night leading up to what I believe was my first NDE was preceded by an experience where I a was feeling so weak I couldn't even think. I was laying awake in my bed.  It was like two dimensions were merging. I was looking into another place that was not my room, but it was before me in front of my eyes.  Yet, I was still in my bed. What I was looking at were my two dogs from early childhood. My parents had got two husky pups, named Kag and Lace, when I was a year old. I grew up with Kag and Lace.  We lived in the country.  Everywhere I would explore, my dogs would be with me. Somewhere around age five Lace had gotten hit by a car. I wasn't really upset because I was still very young and didn't fully grasp death. Kag and I became inseparable. When I was 12 years old, I was having a sleep over at one of my friend's houses. It was a summer evening and my mom and dad stopped by to tell me that Kag had died. My dad had found her in a field dead. She had been poisoned. I was numb. I decided to not go home but stayed the night regardless. 

That quiet starry night, I laid in the bed with my friend next to me, as I cried.  I tried to cry silently. This was my first real experience with loss and deep sadness. I tried to be silent, but I couldn't catch my breath and quick sniffles woke my friend up. I recall him saying, 'Why are you crying? It's just a dog.' We were young, and I realized in that moment he didn't understand, and I didn't hold that against him. 

Fast forward to 2014.  On this night, I laid in my bed looking into this other realm. This place had a glow, a soft vivid glow and there was Kag and Lace looking right at me. This soon faded, and I finally went to sleep. I fell into a deep dark sleep.  Sometime in the night, I found myself standing before the God. It was a light that was brighter than the sun, and it was in all directions like a blinding ocean of light. It was like looking up at the sun, but then looking away, I was looking at the sky.  I couldn't look away from this, because in every direction I looked, this light and love was in all directions.  I was naked and open before it becaise there was nothing hidden. I was so happy, and yet so terrified at the same time. Before this love, I was empty, and like a bottle it began to fill me and overwhelm me. 

I was then shown my wife back on Earth.  She was so sad that she couldn't carry on. Even though I was not with her, I felt more connection to her then I ever did on Earth. It was a tether of compassion beyond explanation. I felt everything on a level of deepness that I can't describe. I knew I had to go back, and I woke up back in my body. 

It was early morning.  This whole experience was overwhelming to me.  As empathy was radiating through me, I went to the bathroom, shut the door, and wept. What was odd about this experience, was I saw my wife sitting in a car that she didn't own. She was sitting in the driver's seat, parked, and looking lost and lonely. In my natural state back in my body, I thought, 'That's silly we don't have a car like that.' Shortly after this, my wife's out-of-state friend moved to another country and gave her the car that I had seen her in during the NDE. 

In my second NDE experience, I was having severe hypoglycemic attacks again. This night, I dropped to a point of shock. I jumped up out of my body and began to walk across the room. A voice spoke to me.  It was not audible in the way you would hear it with your ears, it was more like energy going right into my mind. It was just as real as any audible voice you would hear with your ears. This voice was stern and powerful, yet loving. The voice said to me, 'Fear not, it's not your time.' I found myself back in my body and in the bed. As I lay there awake, I began to see in an open vision in front of my eyes, myself in the 1960s. I also saw some other people that I don't know who they are at this time, but they had to do with my path. 

I'm much better today physically and I no longer have these hypoglycemic episodes like I once did.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain           Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I had been extremely sick since 2012, and had constant battles with life threatening hypoglycemia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  It's such an alien experience it's hard to describe everything.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was vivid, powerfully overwhelming with love and pure joy.  It was unspeakable.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No comparison

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was total understanding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall a tunnel, just light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Just light, no darkness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, compassion, empathy, joy and terror, but the terror was fading as the love washed it away.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Wife in a car

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not dogmatic, not ritualistic anymore at all. I believe in compassion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I'm not ritualistic, but I believe in Jesus

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It was glorious yet terrifying. It was home; it was love.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered a wisdom, and presence of love. Didn't even have to speak, I knew it was God.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Yahweh the Father, Jesus, Brighter than the sun

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Just understanding that your loved ones need you

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God is love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More compassion and gratitude  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Impossible to explain in words

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_possible_nde_7976.html