{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark NDE 3919","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark NDE 3919  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1859 Mark NDE 3919  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My friend and I were pool hopping on a hot summer day. I did not know how to swim, but that did not deter me from wanting to cool off in the ninety-degree heat. My oldest brother had worked as a lifeguard at this motel swimming pool, located a few blocks from the house I grew up in. The lifeguard on duty was not my brother, but an underling of his; and he did not like me, nor my brother. It started innocently enough; the lifeguard - after a short chase - grabbed me and got me in a leg lock; forcing me to try and tread water with my upper torso. The lifeguard's friend was busy chasing my friend around the pool, which had many guests' sun tanning and reading books. There were even others in the pool, swimming around while I was enduring a hell. More and more, the lifeguard dunked me, and, held me under water, until I could not hold my breath any longer.

I felt that valve open - you know - that feeling when you're trying to swim up from the bottom of the pool and you think you won't make it?  My throat started to buckle, and open, allowing water to rush in.  I wasn't swimming up from the bottom of the pool; a Lifeguard (of all people) was drowning me. I slowly sank to the bottom of the pool, where I stayed for five or more minutes with a water filled body. After a short while, I sensed Angels gathering around me; it was peaceful. Then, I was maybe twenty to thirty feet above the pool, looking down at my friend diving into the pool to save me.

The Angels took me up to a gathering of clouds. There were a few Romanesque pillars with green ivy, and an archway in the back. I had seven Angels holding me up and four in front of me on the landing. Three were very animated and discussing what to do with me, the fourth angel kept me company. I looked around and saw very large Pure Love Orbs with silhouettes of human souls - like a chalk outline of a dead body. I looked down at our earth and it was brown and moving, and alive with all of the souls it takes to make our planet whole; our earth is Alive, as you are. I saw Heaven, a little to my left behind the pillars. It has Gold Wrought Iron Fencing with spikes on top. I saw the pearly gates. My three angels, still perplexed as to how to get me back to my body - did not like my response of, 'I don't want to go back down there; it is painful.' 'You Must! Your Mission is Not Yet Complete!' We communicated telepathically; no lips or mouth movements; all thoughts. Moment by moment you discover how quickly you are gaining knowledge; and how easy it is to accept. My three Angels sought permission from above to show me something. 'The clouds above their heads lit up as everyone cringed in fear. 'Show Him!' was the response.

The Angels flew me over to the right of these pillars - to what looked like a HUGE Four Feet Thick Book, of LIFE. MY Life. Just as my life had passed before my eyes when I was being drowned. I was now being shown my future life, with as much info as I could remember. Imagine a deck of cards - each card has a scene/event from your life - now, flip those cards in front of your face - try to remember anything you can from any card you see. That is what I saw with my Book of Life. I gather that Life is Written; LITERALLY. The Angels, The Book and God showed me several scenes of my life - I am now an inventor of animal products - but, I never invented anything - My Book of Life had these inventions - and, I just remembered them. God's Honest truth. I will not, and cannot take credit for God's Work. HE is the Creator. I was raised Catholic and now consider myself a Christian based on my experience.

  					The Angels finally convinced me to go back to my body. A few adults from the motel rescued me - they picked my very heavy water logged body from the bottom of the pool, pumped my stomach of a pinkish gooey blood type of liquid.  I recovered there, on the concrete on the side of the pool for an hour or two. The lifeguard bent down to say, 'sorry' to me. 'Fu#$ you,' was the only response I could mutter. He again had pure evil in his eyes and I tell you that if there were no witnesses, I'd not be here right now writing this. After gaining enough strength to stand up and walk home, with my friend's help - we encountered my father, who told me I deserved to be drowned.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was up with the Angels.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was up with the Angels.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     God's Time is SO MUCH FASTER Than Our Time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I 'Heard' the Angels talking to me - they never moved their lips, nor did I - communicated telepathically.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was with Angels. Seven lifted me out of my body. One of them was a deceased relative (grandfather). At God's landing - I had another four Angels - three were trying to get me back to my body; the fourth kept me company.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Gods' Landing, The Book of Life, and Heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Frustration, Guilt, Shame.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     When I was drowning, my life passed before my eyes - these were ordinary, important and inane events and moments in my life, i.e. there were moments when I saw myself watching TV and I wondered, 'Why am I wasting time watching myself watch TV?' I thought all of these scenes would have been important events in my life - they were not - or, certainly not all of them. Mundane events also pass before your eyes. When I was with the Angels reviewing my future book of life, the same thing - the book of life had important scenes for me to view, as well as the mundane, and seemingly unimportant. LIFE IS WRITTEN LITERALLY.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     VERY ACCURATE.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Raised Catholic, NOW A CHRISTIAN.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Raised Catholic, NOW A CHRISTIAN.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I saw Pure Love Orbs, Heaven, Angels, The Book of Life.  I came to realize that Life is a Gift from God, no matter what you experience down there, here it is all a gift that we need to realize, and we need to live in joy and happiness rather than pain and shame.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Better ESP abilities and an occasional out of body experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was ALL a Great Gift. I spend more time thanking God for it than I do anything else. I am not mad at the lifeguard; my life has had too much negativity and I will not entertain being a continued negative force in our nature.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared it with my friend who walked me home from the pool where I was drowned. And then, years later, with good friends, and therapists.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had an out of body experience at age six which was corroborated.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I went through emotions of 'it wasn't real' to 'it was'. And, I have way more proof to explain that it was real, than vice versa.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     At age forty-four, I know that much more of the world, and spirituality. God has a plan, and we are it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Be Kind.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_nde.html