{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark G Probable NDE 22617","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark G Probable NDE 22617  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2926 Mark G Probable NDE 22617  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I came down with the flu, which turned into pneumonia.  We were visiting my wife's brother's house at the time.  I went to the hospital the previous day where they took an X-ray that showed pneumonia. I forget the name of the antibiotic, but I started taking it.  The next day, my coughing was very bad.  I was coughing up blood and feeling like I couldn't breathe right.  I was leaning over the sink coughing up this blood and I remember praying for help when, the next thing I knew, I saw what could only be described as a shadowy hand in my mind.  I had to make a choice.  I was told that I could continue and that we have three times in life to make the choice, but that for me, my health would be worse in the future.  I was desperate and I had two small boys at the time.  I remember taking the hand and grabbing it and putting it right on my back where the pneumonia had shown on the X-ray.  Immediately I stopped coughing. 

The next day, we were coming home to Virginia and I was having what looked like an allergic reaction to the antibiotic.  We stopped at the hospital and the doctor looked at me and said it did look like a reaction.  He asked why I was prescribed it and I told him pneumonia.  He asked if I had the X-rays and I told I'm that it was done in a hospital in Maryland.  He ordered another which showed absolutely no sign of pneumonia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I was suffering from pneumonia and was coughing up blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not very conscious and I feel like parts of it are submerged,  I clearly remember the big hand and putting it on my back where I believe the blood was coming from when I coughed.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     While the discussion of choices was occurring, I felt like that took a long time, but I don't really remember much of it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The hand.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First fear and then gratitude.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wasn't really outside of my body per se, but it was weird.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have almost become obsessed with getting back there.  I had another experience when I was younger that I consciously had done, and now it seems as if I'm obsessed with near death and out of body experiences.  Mostly just reading about them.  I have come to believe that reality is much different than we believe but I am trying to prove it and am getting frustrated by it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was no more coughing up blood.  Worst part is that I have even more health issues than I did.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Once, but they were ok with it.  No judgment.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I was younger I had a similar event that I will post in a follow up post.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was my second experience with something weird.  I will make a separate post regarding that. Before my Father died in 2007, he told me that he had an experience where he had died in an operating table (he had had an accident at the saw mill that had cut through an artery).  He had gone somewhere and saw a group of people who were familiar somehow but didn't know them and was told he had to go back.  He never knew about what had happened with me, and was telling me this because my mother had just died and he wanted to assure me that we go on.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_g_probable_nde.html