{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark D NDE 3203","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark D NDE 3203  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1207 Mark D NDE 3203  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I drew the baddest bucking bull on earth.  In the indoors winter rodeo bullriding event, the bull roared out of the chute.  With a really high jump, when he hit the ground the force threw me forward.  As he was coming up for jump, he knocked me with a blow to my chest.  He then began to spin.  On the third spin, I was beginning to fly towards his outside.  I hit the chute gate with my head. My dad said I went straight down the gate like jumping out of a moving truck into a brick wall. 

The next thing I know, I'm up on the ceiling at least 40 or 50 feet looking down. I watched my equipment being taken off me and worried that it was all going different directions. I watched the ambulance back into the arena and watched them put me in the ambulance. As I was up there looking down there was tremendous light behind me. I knew I was up there with the lights, but I knew this light was brighter than the building lights.  Something told me to not look back into the light, so I didn't.

I woke up 3 hours later in the hospital.  I rode the next night in a different event. I don't know what my signs were, but I know that I was not in my body.  My arms and legs were outside my body and I was just floating.  I saw everything going on below 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Jan 1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentDirect head injury  indoor intercollegant rodeo I drawed the prca bucking bull of the year crowned 1 month earlier in oklahoma city national finals rodeo  Other not sure never really heard but was knocked out for over 3 hours.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   while looking down from above

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      while looking down from above

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember hearing anything at all

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   it was blinding light I didn't see it but could feel it behind me

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      worry free except about my gear and equipment but I only thought about that stuff when people were walking away with it

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   interdenominational Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I didn't hear a real voice, only one inside me.  It said to not look back into the light.  I didn't even consider looking back, I just watched forward which was straight down at my body

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have told many people, but still need to tell my mother. I don't know that I've told her

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I know what happened and I know it was real I was a glance from being gone

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think it be interesting to know if anybody else has been where I have

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_d_nde.html