{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_f_ndes.html","mytitle":"Mark F NDEs 6969","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark F NDEs 6969  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark F NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3505 Mark F NDEs 6969  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During the 2001 experience I was given medication for a seizure. That time I had a full, out of body experience where I was watching the emergency room staff work on me. I knew the full conversation they were having and recalled afterward all that had happened. I related to the doctor shortly after (within a minute), everything he had said and done. I was hospitalized after this, and as day went on, I could recall more details, although no one was telling me anything. Yesterday's experience was during a stress test. 

I went to the hospital after my Monday emergency room visit when I thought I was experiencing a heart attack. I was not having an attack but the emergency room doctor suggested the stress test. At 6:30 am, they prepped me for the first part of the test by injecting a radioisotope through an IV. After an hour, they did the imaging and all was good. The next part of the test was to introduce a stimulant to me through the IV. This is when it all went bad. I wanted to tell the doctor something wasn't right but never got the chance. 

I felt very warm and comfortable and believe I was in a brightly lit corridor. It was then that I realized people were entering the room and swarming around me. I then heard the doctor say, 'I have 5 beats per minute and increasing'. They were pushing me back on the table and injecting other drugs into the IV. I looked at the doctor and told him 'I didn't think the test was going well'. He told me he agreed, I then asked him 'how much did my heart rate go down'. He told me: '0 for over a minute'. I told him that I saw the light and was asking him several questions. I was then transported to the recovery room where the nurse kept watch on me. 

After another period of time, they completed the procedure and released me to my girlfriend. I went home and rested the rest of the day. Today I am confused about the experience and over the whole incident. Is sharing wrong? I'm feeling the desire to share but I'm not sure if it's right.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 2001 and Tuesday Oct. 22, 2013'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I thought I was in in cardiac distress.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Both times it felt like I was floating. The first time, I felt that I was standing, but above the ground. The second experience was in a brightly lit tunnel.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Both times I believe it was when I knew something was wrong at the beginning. After each time, I remained calm when they got me back. I was more conscious of the severity than before the procedure. Never thought I could die. But now, feeling I did.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Very surrealistic. No idea of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed surrealistic.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It seemed more sensitive.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As described in prior answers: a peaceful bright tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     As I said, a brightly lit tunnel.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unsure, I felt that I was in the right place.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Everything at that moment.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     Just the tunnel.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wasn't prepared to pass.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   WOULD LIKE TO THINK ZEN LIKE BELIEF

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     After the first one: no. Not sure this time, as it's so soon.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   AGAIN LIKE TO BELIEVE ZEN LIKE

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     just that, uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     feel there must be as i'm stll alive

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     based on experience I'm un-sure. Felt something but can not define

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown, unsure.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I feel it gets better.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Not sure if I should share or not.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Too soon to tell, possibly a calmness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately, some praise, some don't know how to take it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen on TV but didn't understand. Not sure.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel a need to share, but still unsure if I should. Not sure if most can understand or accept.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, I'm unsure if I should share.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Do not recall.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I continue to live.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_f_ndes.html