{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1064","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n25_feb_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N25 February 1886","mylang":"de"}
lfo. UV.-ToL. IL hlIlll1ur, 1866
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
PAOli PAOli
11'.... )Iemben and AuociaUi •• 1S.~ An Aecount of Some Almorm.J Phenomena
ADDDaI BuiD_ lleetlog .. .• •. 187 Alleged to baYe Occurred at B--Lodp,
~eD' of General )1eeUnIl ..• 187 W- .• .. .. .. ... .. 1116
Balance Sheet for 1885.. .. 188 0_ recelYed br the Llterarr Committee 2\'S
l'IaIIcbet&e Writlnlr . • . . . . .. 189 CoIlRIISPOKDDlCB :-Whr I Belleye 1D Ap.
Note on My ArtIcle In the Jannarr Num. par\tlona. . .. .. .. .• nn
ber of the JODrD.J, br HOD. Roden Noel 11)5 Supplementary Ubrary Cat.Jogue .. .. 2111
==============================
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
DOBROSLAVlN, PROFESSOR, M.D., Imperial Medical Academy, St.
Petersburg.
KOVALEVSKY, PROFESSOR, The University, Kharkof, Russia.
WAGYER, PROFESSOR N., Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
MEMBER.
FORSTER, A.liTBONY, Clovelly, Silverhill Park, St. Leonards-on·Sen..
ASSOCIATES.
BonESs, W ILLIAlI WILSON, 20, CampdenGrove, Kensington,London,W.
HARRIS, MISS ISABEL, 9, Chelsea Embankment, London, S.W.
HOPKIN80N, MISS, 37, Woburn Place, London, W.C.
KDlBALL, BENJAMIN, 8, Congress Street, Boston, U.S.A.
M.a.R81IALL, GEORGE 'V., LL.D., ]<'.S.A., 60, Onslow Gardens,
London, S.W.
SLADE."f, DOUGLAS B. W., 20, Campden Grove, Kensington, London, 'V.
SNAPE, Mns., Chorley New Road, Bolton.
STUROE, MISS EMILY, Tyndall's Park, Clifton, Bristol.
VENN, J., D.Sc., F.RS., Petersfield House, Cambridge.
WABDROP, MRS., 10, Lower Belgrave Street, Eaton Square, London, S.W.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
A Council Meeting was held on the 29th ult., when the following
Members were present :-Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Gurney,
C. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers and Frank Podmore. Mr. Calder was
voted to the chair.
The minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed.
On the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. :Myers, three Corresponding
Members were elected, namely, Professors Dobroslavin and Wagner, of
St. Petersburg, and Professor Kovalevsky, of Kharkof.
One new Member and six new Associates, whose names and
addresses appear above, were also elected.
The resignations of several Members and Associates were accepted.
The following donations were reported, and were directed to be
~ J(
186 Journal qf Societ./f lor P8!1cMcai Rt8ea,·ch. lFeb..l88S.
a-::knowledged with thanks: From Mr. R. Pearsall Smith, .£20; from
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, .£10 towards the cost of the Jounuzl; ond
from Mrs. Russell Gurney, who, in sending her annual subscription,
included it in a cheque for .£5.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which the
thanks of the Council were directed to be conveyed to the donors.
An Audited Balance Sheetfor the year 1885 was presented, togetht".r
with a letter from Mr. Morell Theobald as Auditor, expressing his
satisfaction with the way in which the Books were kept; also a
statement of the Assets and Liabilities of the Society at the end of 1885.
These were directed to be laid before the Annual Business }{eeting.
The JlSual Cash Account, made up to date, was presented, and the
necessary accounts passed for payment.
The Finance Committee presented a Report as directed at the last
Cowlcil Meeting. After some discussion, it was resolved to defer
the full consideration of it until the next Meeting of the Council.
The Council met on the 5th inst., at the close of the Annual
Busine!lS Meeting, Professor H. Sidgwick in the chair, the other
Members present being Messrs. Alexander Calder, Walter H. Coffin,
Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey, and Frank Podmore.
The Minutes of last Meeting having been read and signed, report
was Dlade that at the Annual Business Meeting, no additional names
having been sent in, the following were declared duly elected Members
of Council: Professor J. C. Adams, F.R.S., Professor W. F. Barrett,
Professor OliverJ. Lodge, D. Sc., Chu. C. Massey, Esq., F.W. H. }[yers,
Esq., Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., and Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.
The Council then proceeded to the election of the Officers of the
Society for the ensuing year, and the following were unanimously
elected: President, Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S.; Honorary
Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq.; Honorary Secretary, Edmund
Gurney, Esq.
The following Committees were appointed, with power to add to
their number :-
COMMITrEE OF REFERENCE.-Professor Balfour Stewart, u-ogicio as
Preside:lt, Professor Adams, Professor Barrett, Mr. Edmund Gurney,
Professor O. J. Lodge, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart Robertson,
Professor Sidgwick, and Professor J. J. Thomson.
LITERARY COMMITTEE.-Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson,
CbBS. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, Professor H.
Sidgwick, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
LIBRARY COMMITTEE.-Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
HOUBE AND FINANCE COMliiTTEE.-Messrs. Alexander Calder,
Richard Hodgson, Edward R. Pease, and Josiah S. Stapelton.
On the proposition of Mr. E. Gurney, Mr. Walter H. Coffin was
, DiQitizedbyGoogle
Feb., 1886.J Journal Qf 8ociet!/ lor P'.IJckical Research. 187
elected a Member of the Council, in accordance with Rule 17; and on
the proposition of Mr. Myers, Professor Macalister, M.D., F.R.S., and
Professor J. J. Thomson were elected Members of Council, under the
same Rule.
Four new Associates were elected, whose names and addresses are
included in the list on a previous page.
The Council heard with regret of the death, some months since, of
the Rev. Thomas A. Cock, an Associate of the Society.
The list of the Corresponding Members of the Society having been
read over, it was resolved that they all be re-elected for the coming year.
The consideration of the List of Honorary Associates was deferred
until the next Meeting of Council.
The Report of the Finance Committee, including the scheme of
expenditure for the current year, was again under consideration, and
was adopted after a slight modification had been made.
It was agreed that the next General Meeting, on Saturday, the
6th of March, be held at the Suffolk Street Rooms.
The next Meeting of the Council will be held on that day at 4.30 p.m.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
Owing to the absence of a quorum on the 29th ult., the Fourth
Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society stood
adjourned, in accordance with Rule 15, to Friday, the 5th of February.
The chair was taken by Professor H. Sidgwick, at 4.30 p.m. He
placed before the Meeting the Audited Balance Sheet of the Receipts
and Expenditure of the Society during the year H185, which appears 011
the next page. He also read a statement of the Assets and Liabilities
of the Society at the end of last year. From this it appeared that these
almost exactly balanced, independent of the Library belonging to the
Society, and of the stock of Procucing8. An estimate had been made
af the value of these two items. It was obvious, indeed, that property
of that character might be estimated Tery differently according to the
point of view from which its value was regarded. But as the Society
was solvent independently, it might be considered in a sound and
satisfactory position.
No additional nominations for Members of Council having been
£ent in, those whose names were included in the notices convening the
"Meeting were declared duly elected.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
The next General Meeting of the Society will be held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, S.W., on
Satnnlay, March 6th, at 8.30 p.m., when a paper will be read by Pro-
fessor Barrett, on Physical Phenomena connected with Spiritualism.
f Digitized by (]t)VgIe
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE AOOOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31~t DECEMBER 1885.
o
~
N"
il
~
~r.
1885.
Jan. I.-To Balance in h~nds of Treasurer
£ s. d.
75 3 2
10 0 0
Do. Secretary
DI'C. 31.--" Subscriptions:-
Members
Al!sociates
.. Life Subacriptions
Donations ... ...
... 41514 0
... 276 3 6
" Sale of Publications :-
Per Trilbner &: Co. (.ruly 188-1
to June 1885) ... ... 84 10 2
Secretary 71 [) 5
.. Rent--(Two upper Bool'1l nt 14,
Dean's Yard, 12 months to
Michnelmas 1885)
Sundry Receipts
~
o
~
........
rv
Al1dited and fonnd correct-
MORKf.L THEODALIl,
}"ello.w of the l'hartel'ed. 4..:coQutautl.
£ 8. d.
so 3 2
G!ll 17 6
42 0 0
27 7 0
1M 15 7
00 0 0
345
£1,000 7 8
" Januar11, 1881l.
Q:r.
11l85.
Dec. 31.-13y Research:-
Literary Committee
Mesmeric Committee
£ s. d.
33 2 1
10 0 0
Library
Printing:-
Procl>edingM, Part III. Ed. 2 ... 2"2 0 0
" VI. (Alteration) 3 13 6
" VII.... ... 00 10 6
" .. VIII. (on QC.
cOl1nt of) ...
Index and Title Page to Vol. II.
Journnl, NOlI. 8-1:!
General
Covers nnd Bin(ling
Geneml Meetings ...
" Advertising ... ... ... ...
00 0 0
G 1 0
4815 0
[)114 6
" Tnmslntion (from the German) ...
Tmvelling ExpenseM (Members of Council)
Salary to Secretary (Sep. 1884 to Sep. 11l85)
Rent Bnd Service (t2 mouths to Michaelmas
1885) ... ... ...
Reading Room and Stationery
Philosophical Instruments
Postage (Secretary'.) ... ...
Postage and sending out of Part IX.
" Gas (18 months) ...
.. General Expenses ...
" Balance Invested in Consuls
in hand. of Treasurer
Secretnry
42 0 0
108 14 3
10 0 0
£ s. d.
43 2 1
3"2 16 7
248 14 6
6 211
78 2 3
85 4 0
13 2 0
33 7 G
120 0 0
100 0 0
816 3
1 12 0
72 In 4
12 7 1
7 11 !.I
sr. 18 2
100 14 3
1.'1.000 7 R
~
00
00
~
;:::
::!
i:i
-
~
~
~.
~
~
~
t1;'
~
-
~
~
~
;:.
1
~
Feb., 1886.] JOllrnal of &ciet!/for P8!1chical Raearch. 189
!
PLANCHETTE WRITING.
In a paper of Mr. Myers' (Proceeding. of the Society for Psychical
Research, Vol. II., p. 21i) on "A Telepathic Explanation of some so-
called Spiritualistic Phenomena," he adverts to the familiar experiment
of planchette writing, and considers what theories are logically possible
as to the source of the writing obtained. The words, he says, may
conceivably be:-
1. Consciously written in the ordinary way with the deliberate in-
tention of expressing certain thoughts.
2. Or they may be written automatically, that is, as I understan
the tenn, by the muscular action of the writer, but without previous
conception of the thoughts which his hand is about to signify on paper,
or even in total ignorance of the purport of what he is writing.
Mr. Myers then enumerates four sources from whence the influence
directing the automatic action of the hand in a significant track, may
conceivably be derived, viz.-
1. Unconscious cerebration, that is, I suppose, spontaneous agita
tiona of the brain of which the writer has no direct cognisance.
2. Some higher unconscious intelligence or faculty of the mind, as
in clairvoyance.
3. Telepathic impact from other minds, that is, sympathy through
other channels than the ordinary organs of sense with the thoughts or
affections of other persons.
4. Other spirits or extra human intelligences.
It is not my purpose to inquire into the value of these theories in
explaining the fact of automatic writing, or to consider how far the
various principles, suggested as the source of the writing impulse, are
entitled to claim the character of a wm MUltI. My object will be to
point out what seems to me a vital error in the way in which Mr. Myers
supposes planchette writing to be produced. Whatever the source from
which the writing impulse is supposed to proceed, it is clearly under-
stood by Mr. Myers to take effect through the muscular action of the
planchette writer, who blindly moves the board in such a manner as to
trace out significant lines,in the same way that the bird builds its nest,
without previous conception of the structure it is rearing, or of the
purpose which it is destined to serve. So in planchette writing the
movement of the board is supposed to be truly the act of the apparent
writers, although without intelligence of the sense their writing will be
found to express. But this is directly opposed to my own experience.
I alwa.ys sit with a partner at planchette, with both our hands upon the
board, and have never seen writing obtained with a single sitter. Now
I knoto that it is not I that am moving the board. I am conscious of
Digitized by Google
190 Journal qf Societ!l.for Psychical Researe/I. [Feb.,1886.
being entirely passive in the guidance of the pencil. To me it feels
exactly as if the movement came from my partner.
My endeavour is to allow my hand passively to follow the movp-
ment of the board, and all that I do in the way of muscular action is to
give so much play to my hand, as may be needed in order to avoid
interfering with the feeble force by which the pencil is guided in the
formation of letters. Whether that force proceeds from my partner or
from some invisible power I have of course no direct knowledge. B~t
my partners give exactly the same account of their experience with that
of which I am sensible in my own case. They assert tha.t they take no
a.ctive part in the guidance of the pencil. I have chiefly sat with a.
lady in whose accurate observation as well as perfect good faith I have
entire confidence. She writes me: "I will try to describe about the
planchette writing, which in its best form is totally different from auto-
matic writing. I can speak positively as to this, as both a.re done
through my mediumship. With the planchette there is no electric
sensation in the arms and hands. They feel quite in their usual condi-
tion. The fingers are placed on the board with sufficient firmness to
exert a downwa.rd pressure on the pencil point, and after a little inter-
val the board appears to become n living thing under one's hands,
moving often with great energy, and all that one has to do is to follow
it, taking care that no involuntary movement on one's own part inter-
feres with its proceedings, and that the hands remain in position upon
it.· The removal of a hand by either of the sitters breaks the link, and
the movement ceases instantly. This is equally the oo.se with the sub-
ordinate as with the chief medium. The writing is upside down to
the chief medium and £aces the subordinate. With C. I am subordinate
medium, with you, my father, husband, and aunt I am usually chief. I
think it is a proof that the movement is not caused automatically [i.e.,
by the muscular act of the sitter] that the board has the power of
lifting itself up under our hands, the pressure of which is downward.
The sense of separateness [i.e., independence of the sitter] in this writing
is very great. I need not allude to the matter of what is written, for
it would be too long a story to tell the numberless instances in which
information has been given which could not have been derived from the
minds of the sitters, and views expressed which were at variance with
our own."
To the same efiect, in a case cited by Mr. Myers (p. 236) where the
writer was operating without a partner, and had, therefore, the whole
circumstances of the case within her immediate knowledge, she says:
"\Vhen I write in this way the ideas do not come (consciously at least)
from my mind, and my lw.ni seems to be gently moved by 801116 external
inJluence."
I have entire confidence in the assertion of my correspondent above
gitized by (.oogI
:Feb., 1886.] Journal qf &ciet!lfor P8gchical Re8earch. 191
quoted that she is completely passive in the guidance of the pencil, and
I have every corroboration of her word of which the case admits. I
see that her fingers are quite without rigidity, and the writing goes on
unchecked while she looks away or converses with those around her.
The last time I had an opportunity of sitting with her (in August,
1885) I said aloud on sitting down to the table that perhaps the real
operators would give us some proof of the inter\"ention of a third
intelligence besides our two selves. I had not in my own mind formed
any precise idea of the proof I required, but I vaguely thought that
perhaps they might refer to something unknown to either of us in a
way that might subsequently be verified. The pencil began to move
shortly after we sat down, but on looking at the writing we could
neither of us guess what it was meant for. We replaced our hands on
the board, requesting the operators to write clearer. Tho writing
immediately recommenced, and now there was no difficulty in reading
the sentence, " Vera runt ilia," which was obviously the same with
what had been aimed at in the first imperfect attempt at writing. I
understood it to mean that my supposition of the presence of a third
intelligence who was the real mover of the pencil, was correct; and
this understanding was at once confirmed by planchette.
Now I knew that the sentence was not written by me, nor had any
such thought passed through my mind. My partner, therefore, could
not have been influenced to write by telepathic impact from my mind,
and as she knew no Latin she could not have written it consciously
herself. To me, therefore, it was as complete a proof as could possibly
be given of the operation of an intelligent agent distinct from either
ofus.
H anyone thinks that an escape from my conclusion might be
found in the supposition that my unconscious self, approving, in Latin,
my own actual belief, telepathically influenced my:partner to write the
words, I would reply, in the first place, that such a supposition would
be in direct conflict with my partner's positive assertion as to a matter
lying within her immediate cognisance, viz., the question whether the
board was guided by her active exertion or not. But independent of
this fundamental objection, I would call on the objector to establish, as
a vera cama, the power of my unconscious self telepathically to influence
the action of another person. The instance adduced by Mr. Myers of
a son brought home in the middle of a concert by the anxious longings
of his mother, is not to the purpose, as in that case the affections tele-
pathically effective lay fully within the consciousness of the telepathic
agent. It is incredii;)le that phases of that mysterious being, the uncon-
scious self, which fail to inspire our own thoughts or actions, should
yet have power to influence the bodily action of another person.
The exertion of mechanical force as if by an unseen agent has
Digitized by Google
192 Journal oj Socitf..'1 lor P8ychical BtWlrcl.. [Feb., l8Il6.
frequently been witnessed under various forms in other cases. The
movement of bodies in darkness or in light, apart from any human
agency, bas been matter of daily experience at physiealsea.nOO8 for the
last forty years. And,in much closer analogy to the case of pla.nchette-
writing, a cloud of unexceptionable witnesses have given their testimony
to the fact of what is known as psychography or slate-writing ; where
writing is produced under conditions carefully devised in order to
exclude the possibility of its being done by human hands. Writing,
often in languages unknown to anyone present, has been produced in
nailed-up boxes, in the hollow between pairs of slates locked together
or hermetically closed with gummed paper, or even between the pages
of a closed book. Over and over again the word to be written hu
been arbitrarily fixed by the sitters by naming the page and line of &
book taken down at random from the shelves at the moment, and only
opened after the word has been written. Most of these I have
repeatedly witnessed in full light, under conditions that made the
possibility of juggling inconceivable to me.
In the case of planchette-writing, the evidence of an external
agency must, of counse, depend upon the credit given to the assertion of
the sitters that their handa are passive in the operation. Now, in my
own case, I know that I can speak with perfect assurance to the ques-
tion whether it is I who am guiding the pencil or not, and I naturally
:..ttribute the same power to my partner. But if our assertion that the
writing is not done by either of our hands is believed, o.ll possible open-
ing for a telepathic explanation of the phenomenon is cut away. It will
be neeessary, then, in order to clesr the ground for such a theory, to
maintain that it is impossible for the sitter to say whether the board
is moved by his own act or by an external force.
HBNSLEIGH W BDGWOOD.
Mr. Wedgwood's very interesting paper raises two important points,
first, as to the source of the motion of planchette, .and secondly, as to
the source of the communications given.
As to the first point, I must at once admit that I do not think that
in the present state of our knowledge Mr. Wedgwood's argument can
be completely a.nswered. He argues that the motion of planchette
cannot be always due to unconscious muscular action, because that
motion is sometimes considerable in amount, and proceeds while the
writer is carefully noting his own muscular sensations and the look of
his hands. and feels convinced that his muscles are not acting.
Now, it is very hard to say to what extent one's musclesocan act
unknown to us under these conditions. The"willing-game" shows us that
they can thus act to a small extent j that one may give a small push or
jerk, even whell one's whole att.ention is devoted to not jerking. But it
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1886.] Journal oj Society/or P81JcMcal Ruearch. 193
is quite possible that in these cases the jerk is the actual translation
into motion of the will twt to jerk,-an apparent paradox which will be
better understood if we look upon all or most thoughts as involving
rudimentary tendencies towards BOrne motion. In that case, if I resoh·e
not to move my hand, the very direction of attention to the hand-
moving centres may in effect move my hand ,lightly,-though at the
lame time it will prevent my hand from moving mucl,.
It is therefore possible that we may very quickly reach the superior
limit above which unconscious motion (during definite attention)
cannot go on. It is poSBible that Mr. Wedgwood's and his friend's
conviction that they were not moving the planchette was justified by
fact. On the other hand, we must remember that not only mesmerised
subjects, but some persons even in a waking state, when specially
susceptible to mggeBtion, can be made to believe that they are
struggling-say-to remove their hands from a table, while in reality
the muscles which would move their hands are at rest, and the muscles
which keep their hands in position are tense,-in direct opposition to
their own belief. Those who have performed such experiments as
these, (as I have myself done,) with a waking and perfectly conscious
person,-deluded on this point alone,-will hesitate before ascribing to
extemal agency any effect which a man's own muscles are actually
capable of producing.
On the whole, it seems that in order to decide the matter either
way, we need mechanical tests. Mr. Wedgwood's contention that the
planchette partly rose while the hands were pressing downwards is not,
I think, cogent without such tests j for slight changes of pressure
between the two bands may make the implement rise in almost any
direction.
r would suggest to inquirers with a mechanical turn that they
should (1) repeat Faraday's experiment as to the rotatory motion given
unconsciously to tables, and this both before and after warning the
sitters to be careful not to push j and (2) try and get a planchette to
write in a box or case, so contrived that the writers can apply
pressure only in one direction.
I ought to add that Mr. and Mrs. Newnham, the chevaux de bataille
of my theory-which is Mr. Newnham's theory, too-go even further
than Mr. Wedgwood, and state that the movement of planchette was
often suell as Mrs. Newnham could not by conscious effort imitate
afterwards under the like conditions.
Ii seems to me that this question (on which I took care not to
dogmatise in the paper to which Mr. Wedgwood refers) must remain
Open until in the first place accurate meChanical tests have been
applied, and in the second place some sort of agreement has been
reached as to the occurrence or non-occurrence of other movements of
Digitized by Google
194 Journal oj Sodctg for P8.vc/aical Re8carcll. [Feb., 1886.
objects by supernormal means, of which" psychography," if it exists, is
an example. I note with respect Mr. \Vedgwood's conviction that
psychography is a fact, for I know that he has not been sparing of time
or trouble in satisfying himself on this point. But qualified opinions
on the matter are certainly not so accordant as tojustify us in assuming
psychography as a foundation on which to base further argument.
And so far as regards the source of the communications, it is not
clear that e\"en were planchette to move without being touched at aU,
the words written need proceed from any mind except the minds of the
sitters. )1any of those who believe in ~'physical movements" t:xplain
them by an " extl"llrneural force" exerted by certain persons in near
proximity to their own bodies, though not by ordinary muscular action.
The sentence, "Vera BUnt ilEa," which Mr. Wedgwood cites as a
reply which could not ha.ve proceeded from the unconscious mind of a
lady ignorant of Latin, is an unlucky one for this purpose. For it is
plainly a fragment of the often-cited speech of the dNd Ficinus, "0
Michael, Michael, vera. sunt illa," as given by Baronius in a story
which (though demonstrably inaccurate) has been repeated in a great
many collections. This is just the kind of phrase which would lodge
in the mind even of a non-Latinist reader. I trust, however, that Mr.
Wedgwood's correspondent may be able to furnish some stronger cases
of answers containing facts provably unknown to the persons present.
I am disappointed at the sca.ntin,ess of the evidence sent to me for
these higher branches of automatic writing. I observe that the editor
of Ligl,t has made a like appeal with equal ill-success, so that I am
obliged to conclude that such phenomena are probably not now often
occurring, that there are not many presentable cases of information
given or identity proved. In reply to one of my papers on this subject,
Light printed an article from an anonymous correspondent, who
urged-as his sole instance to confute me-tha.t a friend of his had a.
friend whose children wrote messages in langua.ges which they did not
know. I at once asked for further particulars, but the anonymous
writer made no attempt to substantiate his statement. Now does any
educated Spiritualist think me unfair because I am not impressed by
letters of that kind1 Does he not agree with me in making small
account of anonymous dogmatism and third-hand gossip, whatever be the
cause which they are meant to support 1 And, on the other hand, may
I not call even upon my anti-Spiritualistic readers to receive with
respect a letter like Mr. Wedgwood's1 clear statement as it is of
personally-observed facts, which, whether we agree with his interpreta-
tion of them or not, form, at any rate, one more brick in that fabric of
psychical research which we and our successors shall yet be many a year
in building.
FREDERIC W. H. 1\1YEBS.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1886.] Journal qf Bocke!1 for P8!1chical Re8ea,.cn. 195
NOTE ON MY ARTICLE IN THE JANUARY
NUMBER OF THE "JOURNAL."
By HON. RODE.."i NOEL.
May I be allowed, while correcting three misprints in my paper in
the January number of the JO'Urnal, to ma.ke a very brief a.clclition to
it? On p. 170, for "committed ourselves" read "committed the~l1-
selves," and on p. IiI, for "that a dominant suggestion" read "that
of a. dominant suggestion," and for "and where the Spiritist
hypothesis" read .. where the Spiritist hypothesis."
The amplification I wish to make is this. I did not sufficiently signify
in that paper my agreement with ~Iessrs. Myers and Gurney when they
speak of the dramatising faculty of the individual ima.gination. The
"materials of sense" are always subjected to the" categorising," mould-
ing, or robing faculty of the intelligence which receives them. But
philosophy has, in my view, not enough recognised that, while thought
is universal, it is also individual, and hence receives a subjective tinge
special to every individual mind. So that a thought, or sensation fronl
outside (i.e., according to my idealism, from other minds) would receive
a more or less peculiar investiture from the individual into whom it
enters. Ifall thought is universal, and yet also individual, my contention
concerning visions or abnormal percepts is surely justified afortiori i for
there is always something in the sense-element which irresistibly sug-
gests an extema.l source. But to put the whole content of such percep-
tion (normal or abnormal) into other minds is to put the origin of it
back indefinitely, i.e., to give no origin at all. Hence this must be
supplemented by the additional admission of an investing, or dramatis-
ing power in the individual imagination. But what I maintain is
that, in dreams and visions, something is transferred; there is an
element from outside, something corresponding to what is usually
meant by objective.
If I dream of persons being in a situation in which they do not seem
to themselves, or their friends to be, what corresponds externally to this
may be only a "dominant suggestion "--a vivid imagination by another
intelligenc'll impressing itself on ours, and worked up by ours. But it
may also correspond to a passing thought of the person himself or to a.
forgotten dream of his. In any case, the sensuous imagination is
the true creator of what we term objective reality-or the sensuous
fantasy, working co-operatively-though there is a Diviner and more
substantial kernel, or Basis of Intuition within, or behind this appea.r-
ance. So at least it seems. I would not be dogmatic !
The gist of my argument is that, if normal pel'ception implies an
objet,1; external to the individual perceiving mind, so does abnormal
perception likewise.
Digitized by Google
196 Journal of Society/or P8ychical Research. (Feb., 1886.
AN ACOOUNT OF SOME ABNORMAL PHENOMENA
ALLEGED TO HAVE OCCURRED AT B-- LODGE, W-.-.
In the autumn of 1884: the Society received accounts of some
abnormal phenomena which were said to have occurred at a house in
W--, a small village about 4:0 miles from London. The house-
.a modern one, having been built, I believe, within the last half
century-stands flush with the high road, having a garden on one side
and at the back, and a barn, which separates it from a row of cotta~
on the other. On the ground floor, to the right and left of the entry
respectively, are II. drawing-room and dining-room; beh;nd each of these
is a kitchen: the kitchen behind the dining-room communicates with
a small scullery, which leads into the barn above referred to. The barn,
which has no window, possesses another door, opening to the high road.
Beneath the house are dry and spacious cellars.
The first floor contains four rooms; situated as shown in the plan
subjoined. On the second floor there are three bedrooms, corresponding
to the front rooms on the floor below; the rest of this floor is occupied
by two windowless garrets, one of which contains the cistern.
ROUGH PLA.-'I1' OF FIllST FLOOR OF D-- LonoE, 'V--
r: Mr.V.'a
Room occupied byDr. P., oratory Mra. Peed's room, over
and later by Mr. ana over dining·room
Mrs. V., over drawing- entrance
room hall
J ~ \/0_)
IChimney-\ ~
Cupboard 1of kitchen, Lobby Land.
. &c. IA B lUg
------ - - 0
Stair-
('-=
t:! C&IIe .s::
Room in which llr. W.slept, ~ t
aud Mr. Vo's drelOlling-roolll f
A Place where Dr. P.'s dog slept.
B Baize door.
Cupboard
C Plaee where Mra. H. (then Mrs. Peed) states she saw the figure.
Digitized by Google
Feb.,I886.) Journal f!! Society for PBychical ReBearcll. 197
From 1870 to 1876 the house was occupied by Do Mr. and ?tIrs.
Peed. Mr. Peed died in 1876, and Mrs. Peed-who subsequently
became Mrs. H.-left the house in 1877. During her occupancy she
received as lodgers, BUcce88ively, the Rev. H. A. S., and the Rev.
E. G. P., who acted as curates to the rector of the parish.
The following letters from the Rev. H. A. S. were written in
answer to our inquiry whether he had had &ny unusual experience in
the house during his stay there :-
July 28th, 1885.
I regret that I am unable to offer much infonnation in reply to your
inquiries concerning B-- Houae, W--.
I do, however, diatinctly remember hearing on many occasions sounds of
footsteps upon the stairs, and eBpecially upon tho little landing, at varioua
hoUl'B during the night. The inhabitants of the house then were Mr. and
Mrs. Peed (the former paralYBed and unable to leave hia room without &BBist-
anee), myself and &maid nanled EmmA Matthews. At first 1 thought the
maid must have been secretly entering or leaving the houBe for objectB best
known to herself, but &B she W&B always thoroughly respectable and discreet,
and 25 years of age, I could not e&&ily understand these proceedings.
Moreover, I could never discarn the object of the footsteps themselves.
If they descended, I waited vainly for sounds of ascending i if ascending, I
might vainly listen for any sounds of dellCent. For obvious reasons I waa
unwilling to emerge upon the stairs en deahabille.
Finally, I asked my landlady, Mrs. Peed, if Emma walked in her sleep;
but no satisfactory solution of the matter appeared, and I ceased to notice
the ordinary BOunds.
On one occasion I remarked to my landlady that I heard people .. scuf-
fling in the garden at the l:iack door, and could hear their feet onthe gravel."
She went to the door and perceived nothing. She became a widow shortly
after I left w--; then married a farmer, who has also died, and she ia
now living at W--. From her some further information might perhapa
be derived.
Of course I had often heard rumours about the house-a more flwduJ~
and practical houae could not exist-but know nothing further of my own
knowledge.
H. A. S.
P.S.-I ought to mention that the footsteps on the stairs nearly always
proceeded to or emerged from the top story of the house, where no one
lived but the maid. I f1t11tT heard either back or front door opened at night,
though I often"waited for that object.
July 3bt, 1885.
I began to reside in B-- House, W --, (probably) aboutJuly, 1871,
and left the houae finally on August 27th, 1872.
H. A. S.
The next &ccount is from the Rev. E. G. P., D.D., who
appears to have succeeded Mr. H. A. S. in the curacy. This account
was written by Mr. C. Downing from notes taken at a. personal inter-
view, and has been corrected by Dr. P. himself.
Digitized by Google
198 JournnlC!f Societyfor P8ycllical Rt8earcA. [Feb., 1881.
I began residence B8 curate of W-- at B-- Lodge, December 29th,
1872, and left May 10th, 1875. I was then fresh from Oxford, and a boating
man. The house WB8 of moderate size, built plainly of red brick, and had
nothing in any way suggestive of "ghosts" in its appearance. It W88
neither lonely nor gloomy looking,
1 WB8 not aware, upon taking po_ion of my apartments tltere, that
any history attached to the house ; buth4ve aince learnt that an old gentle-
man of no great reputation once lived there, who WB8 supposed to have had
an illegitimate child, and to have made away with it. Tht:re were BOme
peculiar stains on the floor of an upper room in the houae, and on the 0cca-
sion of the kitchen chimney catching fire, what looked much like charred
fragments of a child's bones came down. It is also said that the houae is
built upon the aite of an old inn (17th and 18th century) which was fre·
quented by the outlawa of the Chiltem Hilla, and in which several murders
were committed.
A Mra. Peed (now Mrs. H.) was the landlady. Her bnaband W88
paralytic, incapable of moving by himself. He died July 20th, 1876. TIle
phenometlCl Mile conti.mced since his death.
The only other person in the house WB8 Emma Matthews, the servant,
a taciturn and trustworthy woman, of Puritan family and religiona diapoai.
tioD. Oue night, when she toa. (lfDaY in the tJillagt, at the aick bed of her
mother, the naual occurrences took place, ill a more pronounced way, if
anything. .
There was a second floor. My aitting-room on the ground floor W88
beneath my bedroom, and Mr. and Mrs. Peed had a dining-room beneath
theira.
On retiring to reat, I alwaya bolted the lobby door, leaving my bedroom
door open. I WB8 thna shut oft' from the reat of the house. lly dog-a
Yorkahire fox-terrier, pedigree breed-alept in a basket in the lobby.
Almost immediately after I began to live there I noticed strange noises
at night, both in my own rooma and all over the honae, especially in the
room at the top of the honae, where the ataina were. These noises, how-
ever, were not very O88y to localise. They were at firat alight, but after-
wards increaaed in intensity. They were eaaentially unearthly, an<l it is very
difficult to describe them. There were loud explosions, 80unda like the
falling of trays, atampinga, ruetlinga, aounds of heavy fumiture being
moved. When I sat in the room below, it seemed B8 if there were a lot of
schoolboys"larking" in the bedroom above. There were &lao aighs and groans;
but no knockinga. Nor did I ever attempt to communicate with what I con-
sidered to be an evil power. Strange to say, and thia WB8 noticed by previous
and aubaequent occupants of the house, the noises se(:med to be greatest to-
wards the full of the moon; and there were considerable intervals in which
they were not heard at all. The dog apparently heard nothing.
On the night of May 14th, 1874. I had retired to rest, quite ignorant that
11 dear friend of mine WB8 dying. I WB8 awakened by a noise in the comer
of the room, like the claahing of cymbals, followed by other strange BOunds.
I bad become naed to my visitants by this time, WB8 in no way frightened.
turned away and went to sleep again.
On the night of May 31st, 1874 (the moon then being at the full), an old
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1886.] JOllrnal 0/ Societvfor P,vcllical Re,earcl,. 199
gentleman, Mr. W., my friend and adopted lather; as I waa wont to call
him, waastaying with me. He slept in the dressing-room, and burnt a light.
Both our doors were open, but I am aa certain as I can be that the lobby
~oor waalaatened aa usual. Mr. W. knew nothing of these noises. In the
middle of the night I was aroused by the most extraordinary clamour in the
lobby j sprang out of bed and entered the dressing-room. AJJ I did 10 I 1&11'
thedogwaa gone, and the lobby door wide open. Mr. W. waamuch agitaUldj
aid that he had been greatly alarmed, but should be better presently. It
was not till shortly before his death (December 28th, 1875) that he told me
that he had awoke just before I entered and seen the figure of a tall man, in
a grey woollen dressing-gown, standing at the foot of his bed. This
appearance, I believe, coincides with what haa been seen by others. My
o()nly feeling at the moment waa that of great angerat being thus continually
disturbed, and upon this night especially, in a manner which was worse
than all that had gone before. Taking the light, I went out on the landing,
where the noise still continued, followed it closely ~eT it _ed to go;
drove it, so to say, down stairs, seeming to hear the stampof feet upon each
atair, together with all indescribable lOund in the air, just where the head
-of an invisible being, the height of a man, might Imve been. From tho
alairs it proceeded, still stamping, into the dining-room, which I also
~utered, with nerves braced for the worst that could befall, and thoroughly
determined to cope with this noW' insupportable annoyance. In the middle
1)f the room it Clued, and I adjured it in the Name of God. There was
no answer, and in a moment or two, with more terror than I had ever felt
before, I returned upstairs. Thedog waa atD. (on the plan), crouched in a
-condition of the utmost fear, loaming and bristling, every hacklo on end.
•Uter this night the noilOl kept at a :diltance and UIff" t~T in the .Uml
t'OQm 1DiU~ me.
Mrs. Peed and Emma Matthews heard noilos, though I cannot say
whether they were heard at the same time by everybody. Mrs. Peed haa
'IeeIl the apparition twice, I understand j also that an old lady who came
down from London afterwards and took the apartmenta, having previously
inquired whether anyone else lived in the honae, and been answered ill the
negative, complained on the morningafter the first night paased there, that
the landlady had deceived her in this particular, for in the middle of the
·night abe was awakened by a tall man, in a grey woollen dreiling-gown, who
"as moving the ottoman in her bedroom. Near this ottoman I used very
often to hear noises.
I may mention that before Mr. V~ took the house he had heard from
me, at St. Augustine, what experiences I had there. He waa rather in·
~lined to laugh at me, and for lOme five months after he began to live in it
-this intimation seemed justified. But no longer t.han five months, 8S you
will doubtleu hearfrom him. I never lfatO anything there myself though 1
have constantly had the feeling of IOmeone being in the room with me,
behind my shoulder while I waa writing, &C. Neither before nor since haye
I had any hallucination. If any trickery were practised it 11'1\1 far too clever
for me to discover. If mta could do this they could do anything j at 1000t,
they would never have alarmed my dog. I never listened for or fearfully
expected to hear noises.
Digitized by Google
200 Journal qf Societ!/ for P8!/ckiMl BU8arcn. [Feb., l88I.
(Dr. P. W&l &lked whether his friend, Mr. W., heard the noi.aea, and re-
plied in the affirmative.]
Mrs. H. declined to write out any account of her own experiences
inthe house, but she had no objection to relating them viva voce, and the
following account was written by Mrs. H. Sidgwick immediately after
an interview with her :-
B- Lodge, W-.
Bepumber 28th, 1885.
I have jWlt come back from a long interview with Mrs. H. She
entirely declines to write out all account of what ehe saw, or to eign any
account written by me, so we muet be satisfied with a eecond-ha.nd account.
She lived in this hOWle from 1870 to 1877, with her fil'8t husband, Mr.
Peed, who was an invalid-paralysed, I think-and who died in 1876. Very
eoon after ehe came te the house ehe used to hear noisee of various kinds and
eepecially noises like a person creeping or shuftling about the house. Mr. S.,
the curate before Dr. P., who lodged with her, said he was eure eomeone came
shuftling into his room at night, and thought her eervant walked in her sleep.
But she did not think much of the noises till Dr. P. Beemed much impressed
by them. She saw the ghost only once, in July, 1875, after ehe had been five
years in the house, and about a year or 18 monthe after Mr. W. (Dr. P.'8
adopted father) saw it. It was about 8 o'clock in the evening. She had
been giving her husband hie supper in the room over the dining-room, the
servant had gone out to fetch her some stout for her own eupper-when
going out of the room ihe saw a tall figure standing against the door opposite.
It W&l a tall figure dressed in white-like a surplice. She did not see the
hands. It W&l an old gentlemanwith a bald head, fine forehead and beauti-
ful blue eyee. They looked straight into ench other's faces-she caught ita
eye. She said to hel'8ell, .. So it's you that goes about the honae," looked
down to the ground a moment, and when she looked up 8i.'B.in it had
vanished, orshe would have spoken to it. She would know it again any·
where, but never saw the face before. She told no one at the t.ime. Her
servant remarked on her paleness when she came in, but she did not explain.
..\. little later-a few weeks, I think--ehe heard a great ruetling. &I of ei1k
dresses, just as ehe W&l starting downetail'8. It seemed &I if something was
" coming on her back," but ahe saw nothing. This frightened her a
good deal more than the other, I think. It was at the same hour in thl"
evening. After this ahe prayed to be delivered from it, and was never
troubled again. She continued to hear sounds, but did not mind them.
The servant, Emma Matthewe, once heard a ailk dress brush put her, and
go upetail'8 and ehut a door while Mrs. Peed and Dr. P. were at evening
church, and Mr. Peed and his daughter were in the dining-room. Itwas
darkish. She thought it W&l Mise Peed -80 much 80 that she went into the
dining-room immediately after witlwut knocking, to take in candles or
something. Miss Peed W&l there, and said eh" had not been up, but thal
Mrs. Peed had come in and gone upatairB-she had heard her silk dress, &C.
Mrs. Peed once saw an old woman with a cap and hooked nose, who held
her down in bed. She had not been in bed long. She thought it was &.
nightmare, but after ithad happened three times in rapid 8ucceaaion on the
aame night she got up to BC'3 whether anytlUng W&l there and found nothing.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1886.] . Journal Qf &cut!I./01' PsycMcal RI'IIf!a1'ch, 201
--~-----
'1'hiI was also at B-- Lodge. She never saw anything, nor had any
psychical experiences anywhere else, and disbelieved in ghoata before she
went there.
She half thinks that the ghoat was concerned in throwing Iler down-
stairs on one and perhaps two occasions, but on one of them it is believed
by others to bave been Mr. S.'s cat.
One BOund that she describes lUI occurring in the house consisted in
three heavy sighs ill perfectly still weather; and once at night, ill the dark, a
voice whispered at the foot of her bcd, "TItree more stages and then death,"
hiasing at the last word. This frightened her, and she hlUl not likell to
aleep in the dark since. I think it was before she saw the ghost.
Others have heard the sighs who had never been told about them, she
believes, viz., a visitor of hers now dead, who thought it snid "Aun, Ann,"
and a third word which I hnve forgotten. The servant, too-anotIter one,
not Emma-was found hy Mrs. Peed, wIlen she c.'\me in, looking out at tho
back door, to see if a tltrlUlhing machine was preparing for work, but
it was not. She had heard three sighs quite loud, and apparently close to
her, and had tried to account for them as caused by the thl'll8hing machine,
These sighs were not heard during Mr. Vo's tenancy.
ELEA..'IOR MILDRED SIDGWICI{.
The next account comes from the Rev. J, F. Y., who has also
kindly related it vivd voce to some of us on the spot. The distressing
nature of Mr. and Mrs. Y.'s experience is proved by the fact that they
moved at some personal inconvenience into a much smll.ller house rather
than complete the term of their tenancy of B-- Lodge.
We took up our abode in B-- Lodge in September, 1882. TIle house
fronts tIte London Road. Two steps lead up to the front door, a garden
rum along behind and to the right of the houso tlnding in the stables,
dhided by a high brick wall from tho rood on one side, and by a stiff hedge
from an orchard on the other. The house has had the reputation of being
haunted for at least 10 or more years past. When we entered the house we
were aware of its illl~me, but did not treat the matter very seriously. We
resided there till Michaelmas, 1884. During this period various phenomena.
took place which may be divided into two kinds :-
I. Visible apparitions.
n Unacccuntable and mysterious sounds and noises.
1. 1. The first time an apparition took place was about December, 1883.
Mrs. V. was awake in the night after gettin~ out of bed to give the baby his
food. She was thoroughly awake and had Leen so for some time, when she felt
aeold blast like an icy wind pass over her hands, which were outside. She
felt an impulse to tum and face tIte door, The door WIUI seen to be about a.
foot open, and a. man's hand grasping it, and his head and his body down to
his waist, in a white dress, as if a night-dress, looking in. He looked full
at her. She was terrified and tried ineffectually 1l6\"eml times to call her
husba'nd by name; when she succeeded, the door shut noiselessly. l\-fr, V.,
when awakened, saw that the door was shut, as his wife's first words were
to aak him if it was open, and after assuring her that it was all fancy,without
more ado fell weep again,
Digitized by Gdogle .11·
202 Joltrllal Qf Sociefy for P8!lcMcal RC8earrlt. [Feb., 1886.
2. Sarah S., on going upstairs to light our bedroom fire at9p.m. saw aman
in white coming out of the dressing-room door. She stood by to let him pall,
thinking it was her master in his surplice (which he sometimes wore in the
oratory, and which hung in the dressing-room). His clothes seemed to
brush lu,r; the figure disappeared into the cupboard at the end of the
landing. (Mr. V. was out at the time, or, at any rate, nowhere near.)
Sarah S. told this experience to Mrs. V. She has repeated her account to
Mrs. V. since ahe left (about one year after the event), and is unshaken in
her cOllviction. [She is believed to be thoroughly truatworthy.]
3. SarallS. was carrying water acroas the hall about 9.30one morning when,
on hearing a noiae, she tumed towarda the front door, which was a lew yards
off. She saw come out of the dining-room door, and pass into the drawing
room, shutting the door behind it, the figure of a tall woman in blsck
wearing a dreaa made like a "sacque," with her hair twisted upon the top
of her head, her face tumed towarda the door, and wearing shoes on her feet.
Sarah S. was much astonished, and went inllO the kitchen and reported
what ahe had seen to Lizzie P., the cook. Mr. V., who was upstairs, heard
her reconnting aome tale or oilier, and the cook laughing incredulously, but
he did not J..-now what about. He then went out, and the servants came and
reported the matter to Mrs. V. TIley all three wen& then into the drawing-
room and found the door, ,vhich had been left open, shut, but nothing else
peculiar. Mr. V. BOon after came in and examined both rooma without
making any diacoveries. If anybody came in, the entry muat have been
(I) NoiseleBB; (2) through the dining-room window; (3) in broad day-
light; and the exit muat have been out of the drawing-room willdow. Air.
V. felt quite satisfied that it "'as morally imp088ible (or anyone to have got
in and out under these conditiona.
4. Lizzie P. disbelieved, or affected to diabelieve, Sarah S.'a atory. Sarah
800n after left. and Annie C. took her place. On the night of April 9th,
1884, about 9 p.m., Lizzie was in the first or upper back kitchen-there
being a light in the room-on her way to the lower back kitchen to fetch a
dish (rom the rack, when auddenly a figure rose up in the doorway before
her. The figure was of a woman in a 10llg black dreBB, a (ace very white,
eyes ahining red, like a ferret'a. It aeemed to atand and look at her and abe
at it. She wns too terrified w move, but at Inst managed to cry out .. Oh ,
Clara I" to the girl ironing in the kitchen. At her cry the object vanished
with a BOrt of rushing aound, but no ateps. Mrs. V. heard the cry in the
drawing-room, the door being ahut, and found Lizzie in a atate of great
agitation and unable for aome minutea to apeak. After aome little time she
burst out crying, and her first. words were that ahe cOldd not atay in the
houae. She then described what ahe had Been. Juat after Annio C. came
down awrs ignorant of what had happened, and pasaed through the back
kitchen, unboltillg the Inst door and the door into the bam into which abe
went to get BOme coal. She retul'Red without ha.ving noticed anything.
Lizzie was so terrified by what Bhe HaW that Bhe aeemed in danger of a fit.
The four women were BO llanic-atrickeu that they apent the night in the
eame room. Mr. V. happened to have gone away the same day, and 'heard
nothing of the event till hia retum on the following Saturday. The only
exit from the back kitchen, excepting the one leading into the hall, visible
from the kitchen, was by the bolted outer door.
Digitized by~oogle
}·eb., 1886.] Journal f!f Socieel/for P8.IJcAicfll Researe!,. 203
5. Clara M. W8II ironing in the kitchen by hel'8llli about 4 in the afternoon.
She heard aomeone coming down ataim, apparently wearing high-heeled ahoes
and a silk eIre.. which rustled. She saw through the open kitchen door a
ahadowof a peraon on tho cupboard door, which faced the bottom of the
stairs. She went on with her ironing and listened, thinking Mm. V. was
coming down. She then saw the door into the back kitchen open and close
again. She could only see the hinge portion of the door. Hearing the
footBtepe atop ahe went out to see who it was, but no one was ,·isible. She
then called out, but no one answered. She then went into the back kitchen
and looked, finding nothing. She then went upataim and asked who had
been down. Finding that no one had ahe waa much astonished and reported
ro Mr.. V. what she had heard a~d seen. This took place May 3rd, 1884.
6. Mrs. V. was in the kitchen one morning ordering dinner; there came a
noise lib the crashing of tin trays from the hack kitchen. She said "What
is ~ Lizzie 1" thinking a dog had come in to help himself to the pig-
bucket. " Oh, we often hear that! " ahe said. The noise W88 repeated; the
third time both went out to see, and on going out through the kitchen door
.saw in the back kitchen something black, as if tlle end of a dreaa, in tile air,
vanish away towards the door. They went to thd doom, found nothing
moved, the doom f88t.
7. About August, 1884, Annie C. and Lizzie P. were ill the sparo room on
the top floor, above Mr. and Mm. V.'a bedroom, about 9.30 p.m. Annie
had just been into the cupboard to take out the bath. On going to the bed
to turn it down she faced this cupboard and saw a man in white standing
against the black clothee which were hanging there, facing her and "looking
very ClO8II." Lizzie P. saw her face turning white and her terror-struck
appearance, but nothing elae. After a few aeconda Annie called out "Oh,
Lizzie, there's a man in tlle cupboard." While abe apoke he vanished away.
II. NoW. strange and manifold have taken place at aU times of the day
and night, and at all pam of the house. Some have been incident.a1ly
mentioned. Noises have been heard, e.!1., 88 of the dashing of fire-irons cloee
by when they were aeen to be quite still, as of 0. peraon walking about, as of
{lne packing up over head, aa of ooala falling into the grate, 88 of some one
thumping under the floor whUe the family were at prayom, as of a box being
put down in the room with a crash, as of boards falling down on one
another, as of a person groaning or wailing in &fIony. A few c&aee may be
singled out for apeciall'Omark.
a. One night Mr. and Mrs. V. were either awake or awakened by a loud
cruh in the centre of their bedroom, apparently, as if BOrne one had dropped
lOme large coals on the floor. Mr. V., surprised, got out of bed and went
to the grate thinking BOrne ooala had dropped ont of the fire-place. Nothing
of the sort had occurred, there was nothing in the grate but small ashea,
nor was there any discoverable ground ·for the noise.
h. Mr. and Mrs. V. have heard noisea aa of a person packing a box in the
bedroom above, where a siater alept at the time-having, as she alleged, been
perfectly atill all night j of a person moving up and down quietly under tho
1liiie circumstances.
c. A moan was heard as if on the Btaim by Mm. V. and Lizzie P., half
moan, half scream of horror, April 9th aforesaid about 11 p.m. They were
Digitized byG;()()gle
204 Jour/lal ~f SOl:iet!1 for Psycltical Research. [Feb.,1886.
on the first floor. Mrs. Y. thought it was Annie, called her, and found
she had made "no noise."
d. Mr. V. hmml a similar agonised, indescribable, horror·stricken moan
one evening when he was going down stairs. The noile was impossible to
localise and unearthly in its peculilU' tone and character.
e. Sunday morning, September 14th, 1884, Mrs. V. was at home Bitting in
the dining.room alone ill the house. Mrs. P., who had succeeded Lizzie P.•
P/'o fem., was in the garden with the baby. Mrs. V. heard a noise as ii
someone were scrubbing the floor or grinding a coffee mill on the top floor.
Mrs. V. listened for some time ; the noise gre,,' louder and louder without
being continuous. Mrs. V. called ill Mrs. P. to listen, and she heard tho)
same, IUld evell the baby heard it, and made his littlo remarks. No investi,
gation was made as they felt too much alanned to go up. The door of the
spare room opened and shut and banged of ita own accord, although all
the windows were shut. Mrs. V. watched the door and it stopped moving.
She stood nearly a quarter of an hour watching. As soon as she left off it
opened again, and banged loudly, shaking the whole house. Doors on the
top floor have at various times done the same thing for no apparent reason.
Mr. V. has watched them also, but never caught them inflagmute delicto.
f. In September, 1884, Mr. V. awoke one night. He was fully awake,
and became vividly conooious of some evil presence close to him, apparently
striking with a sharp instrument 'against the bedstead close to his head,
lllaking a ringing noise. He silently commanded the being three several
times in the llI\me of God to desist, and t.he noises ceased. Mr. V. said
nothing to Mrs. V. about it, but he became aware that·she was in a Sta.td of
great agitation, and asked her what was the matter. He found that abe
had been awake, and declared that some being 11ad paB8ed round the bed,
and touched her foot on the way. She lay still and without speaking, and
felt some one holding his hanlls close to hc.r face. Mrs. V. also hoanl,
she afterwaMs said, this sharp knocking against the bed. Mr. V. lighted a
candle, but, as they expected, nothin~ was visible. Butthe strange sellB8tion
did not plUlB away for Borne little time. Mrs. V. was so disquieted that MI'. V.
promised there and then to lea\"e the house. Next day he gave notice; his
wife's health and nerves had begun to be seriously affected by what she had
seen and heard, and before tlle month WaB over tlley had left the h(luso never
to return.
Remarks.- The above is a bare and uncoloured nan-ath'e of the phenomena
which took place in the house during itsoccupation byAir. and Mrs.Y. Mr. V.,
the writer of the account, wishes to record his strong personal conviction
that the phenomena. admit of no llI\tural explanation. Mr. Y. is of opinion
that the house is either under a curse or in some way under the influence of
diabolical agency, or of departed spirits wIll' have not found rest. Neitller
Mr. nor Mrs. V. !lor nny of their fellow sufferers, as far as they know, have
enjoyed any experiences of the kind at any other time.
Upon this evidence it was decided in the spring of 1885 to take
the house for six months. A member of the Society undertook to
defray the necessary expenditure. Tbe Society's time commenced on
Lady Day, and the house was occupied continually from the 30th
M.areh till the 4th May by Major H. M. Hughes and three or four
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1886.] Jour1lal of Societ!J for PS!Jcllical Researcll; 205
friends. From the 7th to the 18th May it was occupied by the Misses
Porter, and from that date until the end of September, 1885, when the
six months' tenure expired, it was occupied at intervals by various
members of the Society, and others, for periods varying from one to
five days. The sum of these shorter periods was about 25 days, and
about 50 persons in all appear to have slept in the house during the
six months. Only two occurrences during that period appear to me to
call for any remark. In the middle of September a party of four
ladies and two gentlemen were staying in the house, and after they had
retired to their rooms hurried steps were heard to descend the stairs.
On the gentlemen proceeding to investigate the matter it was dis-
covered that the door leading into the garden -which had been closed
and bolted a short time before-was standing open. They inferred that
some one from the village had concealed himself in the house with the
object of playing the ghost.
The other incident referred to consisted in the occurrence of violent
manifestations during dark seances held in thA house by a party of
gentlemen accompanied by the well-known medium, Mr. Eglinton, but
the details of these appaar to belong rather to the question of Mr.
Eglinton's mediumship than to that of the haunting of B-- Lodge.
The following letters from Mrs. Sidgwick and Professor Maca.1iBter
may be held to suggest a. possible means of accounting for the noises
heard by Dr. P. and other witnesses; but the apparitions seen by Mr.
W., Mrs. V. and others, if they were not simply hallucinations
generated by expectancy or anxiety, seem to require some less obvious
explanation, and should, I think, be referred to the c1as& of phenomena
treated of by Mrs. H. Sidgwick in her paper on the" Evidence for
Phantasms of the Dead." (Proceeding" Part VIII.)
Hill Side, Chesterton Road, Cambridge.
July ~th., 1885.
Our visit to w--- was quite uneventful. We encouraged the ghost
as much as we could by sitting in the dark, &c., but to no purpose.
The house seema to me one well adapted for strange sounds, on account
of its extreme nearne88 to tlle road. I think some one made this remark
before, but I was certainly surprised to find how extremely audible outside
sounds were, and tlle idea. that outside sounds have been lUistaken for inside
ones is rather supported by Dr. P.'d statement that the manifestations
occurred more about full moon, because then people are out at night so mueb
more. ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
[It was bright moonlight when Mrs. Sidgwick was there.]
Anatomical Schools, Cambridge.
Octuber ~th, 1885.
My notes of the house are rather in the fonn of a criticism of the evi-
dence submitted to me than of positive results of investigation.
During the period that we stayed there (6.\"e days from June 26th) we
neither saw nor heard a.nything noteworthy.
Digitized by Google
206 Journal oj Society for P8!/chical Re8earch. [Feb.. 1886.
Since tllat time I had the opportunity of reading Dr. P.'s narrative,
which,however, contained nothing but what was known in tlle neighbourhood,
and the substance of which I had learned from Mrs. H. and Mr. V.
The value of the narrative is much lessened by the small amount of
personal observation in it, and Mrs. H. stated to me tllat Dr. P. was not at
home when the kitchen chimney took fire nor for somo days afterwards.
" Had he been at home I should not have let h~m sleep in his own room, as
the smell tllere was BO bad." (I noted her words.) She also aaid that some
dirt came down the "';tchet~ chimney, but no bones tlmt she oould see. She
could not specify tlle year, but thought it was about 1875.
The stain on the boards in the top room I cut a small bit of, and brought
it home; it is paint. Probably some paint pot had been standing on tlle board
and stained it.
Two mell ill the neighbourhood (Mortimer and the landlord of tlle R.."<i
Lion) told me tlmt tlle old inn was not. on tllat site but a little further down.
The local traditions of "BOme murders" resolve themselves into a story
of one pedlar who was seen to enter tlle inn and was :not seen to leave it.
There was a later homicide in a house BOUth of the King and Queen Inn, but
that was the result of a quarrel, and tlle house is at BOme little distance.
Mrs. H. stated to me tllat she had only.teen tlle apparition once. Her
account of the old lady's vision differed from Dr. P.'s as to the character of
the apparition.
We made a. number of experiments on noises in the house, which creaks
like a basket on very alight :shaking. Mr. Hil~, of Downing College. who
stayed tllere with us the laat night we were tllere, said tltat after we had
gone upstairs, walking ratller heavily on purpose, the stairs creaked at
intervals with 1\ series of "recoil creaks" for a while. We also noticed this
ourselves.
When I stamped or jumped in one of tho top rooms I set tlte whole
house quivering, and tlle BOunds as heard below were quite disproportiona\el1
loud ; specially was this the case at midnight.
One of tlle nights waswindy, and when one of tlletop windows was left
open we had noises, with window fiapping, creaking, and doors slamming,
quito enough to f~ighten a nervous man. When tlle door of the dark room
at the top was left partly open and the window open, it produced a most eerie
noise when tlle wind blew.
It was altogether one of the noisiest houses I ever slept in, but every
BOund we heard had an evident physical cause.
I do not know whether Mrs. H.'s evidence has been taken down; it
should be, for tlle story of tlte lady visitor, as well as tltat of tlte first servant,
rest on her evidence alolle, alao the story of tlte kitchen chimney.
Her narratives were graphic<'l.lly told, especially the incident tlmt standing
by tlle foot of her husband's bed one evening she heard the words, "Three
stages 1D0re and tlten death," tlle last word prolonged and hiased as through
the speaker's teetlt. Mrs. H. came up and showed me tlle placeswhere
these incidents took place. Her account of tlte appearance was a tall
bald-headed lDan with side locks of long grey hair, clotlted in a long, grey
dressing gown, and witlt bright blue eyes. He was solid, altllough there
was a window behind him, and it was yet light (eight o'clock p.m. in July),
yet she could not see tltrough him. ALEx. lIACALISTER.
Digitized by Google
J'eb.,l886.J JOflNlnl Qf Societ!l .for P8!Jchical Research. 201
Our readers may be interested in comparing with the foregoing
accounts the following specimen of second-hand evidence, which is
taken from a local newspaper;-
LBTrEa FROM THB REV. J. Y.
Previous to the year 1874: rumoura ofappearances were common,alwaYI at
one particular house (which your neighbour and my friend, Mr.--, has, with
me, examined), and nowhere else in this town. In the year 1874 Mr. and
Hra. H. wllnt to live in the house. Mr. H. (" a tall, thin gentleman") was
ill a long time, and died 18 the hOUBO. After his neath, l\lra. H., the widow,
11111', as she says, "the ghost," and her description of it is nearly enough a
true description of hllr own departed hl1sband. She says the ghost breathed
faintly her name. Mra. H. BOOn after left the house, and is living now at
W., Ji\'e minutes' walk from my house. Whate\'er construction may be put
011 Mra. H.'s story, there CI\n be no doubt whatever that Mra. H. is a clear-
headed, well-informed Christian lady, in whose veracity perfect reliance may
be placed. The house was next occupied by a curate, who frequently heard
something but saw nothing. The house was then tenanted by a Mr. T. and
falDily for about 18 months, I believe, and they neither saw nor heard any-
thing. Next aMra. G. occupied it. She" frequently heard something but
IIlW no appearance." Then the present curate, the Rev. Mr. V., and family
occupied it. Mra. V. saw the ghost (as an old gentleman in long white robes)
so many times that she durat not stop in the house any longer. She was
able one night to wake up Mr. V. (who had not up to this time seen the
"ghoet") before its disappearance, and he saw it. They got out of tho
house as quickly B8 poaaible after this unpleasant experience in 18~. For
several months last summer the house was occupied by deputations from the
Paychological Society in London lucceaaively, each company numbering from
four to five persons. It is believed they neither saw nor heard anything
particular; but I am not quite lure that they have made public all their
experiences. . . . The house is a substantially-built brick building, and
looka like a comparatively modem structure, very remote from what we
wowd expect as being a haunted house. There is a large, lofty wooden
Itructure adjoining the house on one side, which has not been made much
use of for years, and is in a somewhat dilapidated ltate. . . • This old
wooden building, in luch close contiguity to the house, ii, to my mind, quite
sufficient to account for anything that may have been heard.
Then, as to what Mra. H. saw (or fancied sbe saw) after the long, weary
watching at the sick-ultimately death-bed of her husband, after his decease,
Will it wonderful that she (in her weaknlll8, sorrow, and loneliness) shculd
in the dark and lilent houra of the night meditate on the trial and scenes
through which she had so recently passed, and so vividly realise the "ery
presence and foml of her delmrted husband 1 I have no belief whatever in
poet Btories of this 80rt.
In conclusion I may add that we have bllen unable to ascertain
that there is the slightest ground for attacking the reputation of the old
gentleman who "once lived" in the house before the Peeds; and think
it not improbable that the stories against him have their foundation in
the supposed blood-stain, ascertained by Dr. Macalister to be paint.
FRANK PODlI'ORL
Digitized by Google
208 Journal Qf Sl)ciet!l lor P8.'IcMcal Ile8eQ1·ch. [Feb., 18811.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMM[TTEE.
(Continued. )
L.-2362.-Ad pn
The ntlxt case is from the Rev. E. D. Banister, of Whitechapel Vicarage,
Preston.
Not'efllber 12th, 1885.
My father on the day of his death had gone out of the house about 2.:.1
p.m. to have his usual afternoon s'jroll in the garden and fields. He had
not been absent more than 7 or 8 minutes when, as I was talking to my
wife and sister, I was seized with a very urgent desire to go to him. (The
conversation related to a visit which Wll proposed to l>ay that afternoon to 11
neighbour, and no allusion was made to my father.) The feeling that I
ought to go and see him came upon me "ith irresistible force. I insisted
upon all in the house going out to find my father. I WIUI remonstrated with
-my very great anxiety seeming so unreasonable. My father's afternoon
stroll WIUI a regular habit of life in fine weather, and I had no reason to giv~
why on that particular occasion I must insist on his being found. Search
was made, and it was my sad lot to find him dead in the field, in a place
which, according to the route he ordinarily adopted, he would have reached
about 7 or 8 minutes after leaving the house.
My idea is that when he felt the stroke of death coming upon him he
earnestly desired to see me, and that Ly the operation of certain psychical
laws that desire was communicated to me.
E. D. B.
Not:ember 20th, 1885.
In reply to your letter I have to state ;-
1. That vivid impre8Bions of tile kind I have related are utterly unknown
to me ; the one related is unique in my experience.
2. There was not the least cause for anxiety owing to the absence of my
father. It only seemed a short time sinl"e htl had gone out of the room, and
on this account my urgency was deemed unreasonable.
3. I enclose a.corroboration of my statement by my wife and my sister.
4. The date was January 9th, 1883. [We have confirnled this date by
the obituary in the Pmum Chronicle.]
1\Ir. Banister's wife and sisoor supply the following corroboration ;-
We have seen the statement which Mr. Banister has forwarded to the
Psychical Research Society relating to the stl'(lng inlpre8Bion by which he
was irresistibly urged in search of his father on ilie afternoon of January 9th,
1883, and we are able to confirm all details given in that statement.
L.-23Q.'3.
l\-Luty BANISTER.
Aon:s BANIS'IBB.
Frolll a gentleman who does not wish his name and address to be
publishI'd, though he baa no objection to t.~eir being communicated
l,rivately.
Digitized by Google
· Feb., 1886.] Jo-urnal qf 80cietufor P8!Jchical Re8earch. 209
May 28Ut,1885.
In 1862 I lIIliled to Bombay in one of Dunbar's old frigate-built ships.
I \Vas depressed the whole voyage with an undefined presentiment of "bad
news from home."
At Bombay I used to get my messmates to go ashore for letters (a grea.t
privilege), even when it was my turn to do so ; my nervousness was BO great.
However, we sailed for home, and reached and left St. Helena, and no
blackktterwas delivered to me. Two days after leaving St. Helena I was
up aloft doing BOme tritlingllllilor's work with the fourth officer, on the mizen
topsail or top gallant yard, when I heard a bell begin to toll.
I said to him, "Do you hear that bell tolling 1" " No," he said, "I
hear nothing." However, my agitation was so great that I went down and
examined both our bells ; and placed my ear near them, to see if they were
vibrating or if auy chance rope was swinging loose and striking them. How-
ever, while doing this, I still heard the boom of the tolling bell, ",nd it
seemed far au'ay.
I then, when I had satisfied inyaeH that the sound was not attributable to
either of our ships' bells, want up aloft and scanned the horizon in search of
a sail, but saw none.
I then said to my messmates," That's my •black letter.' I knew I should
have bad news this voyage."
At Falmouth we called for orders, and there I found that a lady who
filled the place of elder sister to me (my aunt by marriage), and to whose
younger sister I am married now, had been suddenly carried off by illness-
at that time as near as we could calculate, allowing for the different longi-
tude. She was young (29), lovely, and most winning in her manners. I,
boy-like, adored her, and she used to say 1 was her young saU01' lover; as
my uncle, a captain in the Navy, was her old sailor lover.
I am 40 years old now, and have been through dangers of all BOrta, in
imminent danger of death many times, but I have never had a presentiment
aince.
After nearly 25 years I can still remember tho boom boom of that old
bell in the Manx churchyard, which I heard in latitude 14 S., or thereabouts.
[Our informantthen goes on to give an outline of his career, which seems
to have been an unusually active and adventurous one, and continues :-]
1 only write this short sketch of my life to show you that I have not been
a dreamer, fool, or a mystic, but 11. hard-working, clear-headed man of busi-
ness. I tell you all this, not in a boaating spirit, but simply to prove, BO far
as possible, that I am not a likely subject for "illusions" or "hallucinations."
[Asked \!hether he has ever experienced any other hallucinations, our
informant says :-]
No. I have never suffered from any hallucinations. I have led an active
life,· including much loneliness, being for weaks together in the jungles
shootingand surveying alone,save for native servants,and far from white men,
and during all that time my brain never played me any tricks.
You must remember that this occurred when I was 11. careless youngster
of 17, on my first voyage to sea. 1 could not account for it then; nor can I
now. The impression is as vivid as ever.
Digitized by Google
210 JOUl'nal qlSocit'i,ll.for P8!JCltica/ Be8earC/•• [Feb., 1886.
Asked whether any bella would have been ringing at the time of the
Indy's death, he says :-
Yes. Malen Church bull would llave been tolling in Castletown at that
time, for the pamng bell or for the funeral. I never asked whether th0'
palJ8ing bell was rung, but it is a common habit in tile Isle of Man to toll
the church bell immediately after the decease of anyone of some social
importance. I feel sure it was done in this case; we were so well known
there. I mean it is donefor the gentry and such of the farmers and shop-
keeping cl&88 who care to pay for it.
I may add that the lady who died was inexpre88ibly dear to me, be~ng
more like a sister than an aunt, and I am married to her sister now.
OUl" infonnant has.given us the llame of the lady in confidence, and the
date of herdeath, and we have verified this information by reference to an
Isle of Man newspaper. .
L.-2365.-Ad pn
From tile Rev. H. A. H., The Vicarage-
December 19th, 1885.
The following occurrences took place 3 years ago, and had reference
to parishioners here who were much on my mind, and whom I was visiting
in their last illne88C8.
One was a farmer's wife who was much afraid of giving me trouble. I
had given her the Holy Communion during the .afternoon, and when I left
promised to come again next day. She said she should be very glad to see
me, but did not like to be such a trouble, as it was some distance and I W88
going every day. I said it was no trouble, but the reason why I was here,
and I should be sure to come.
That evening I had a miBBion service, 2 miles away, in qllite another
direction. Mrs. H. was witll me. We were walking home together,
and had joked about not meeting anyone on tile road. I said, "You see if
you had been alone you would actually have met no one to alarm you." It
was rather dark, but you could Bee a form 15 or 20 yards away. We walked
on, talking about various things, and then I saw someone coming. I asid,
"Here we meet someone at last." She said, •• I don't see anyone."
.. Tilere," I said; "look, there comes an old woman, and she is twisting her
shawl round her neck." My wife, however, could see nothing, but I thought
to myself she will see her plainly enough directly. However, it melted
away. There was no one. I said, "It is very odd ; I certainly did see an
old woman. Let us go into C.'s house (the village carpenter's) and Bee if
there is anyone dead." We went in, and he said, "I have just got orders
to make a coffin." I looked at Mrs. H. and said, "Indeed, who is it for 1"
He said, "For Mrs. B.," naming the farmer's wife I had seen that very
nfternoon. I said "There must be some mistake. I only left her at
4 o'clock, and there were no signs of immediate death." "No," he said,
"it is so." I went next day, and found she had died from a sudden stoppnge
of the heart, about half-past 8, and that almost her last words were, ,. I am
sorry to give Mr. H. the trouble 'of coming again to-morrow."
The other occasion was about two or three months afterwards. A very
respectable young farmer broke a bloodve88el on the brain, and I visited
m 80me tllree or four times. The last time he was quite unconscious, and
Digitized by Google
Feb., 181!6.] JOUMlnlof Sockty for P8yc/,ical Re8earcl,• 211
•
evidently could not live long. He was very anxious to see me as much as
poaaible before becoming wlconscious, often' aaying, "Send for the vicar."
On the morning tlmt he died I was awoke by what I thought was Mrs.
H. in her white dresaing-gown. We were sleeping, for some reason, in
separate rooms tlJAt night. I was very sleepy when awoke, and aaid, .. Is it
time to get up 1 I must have another 10 minutes," and fell asleep again. I
... did not look at the face of the form, being very sleepy and feeling I1m~ it was.
Mrs. H. However, by-and-bye Mrs. H. elid come in, and aaid, "Young
R_ is dead; the girl who brings tile milk brought word." I said, "Is
it very long sinceyoufirlJt woke me1" Theil she assured me it was the first time
she had been in the room. He had died about 5 that very morning, just aa
I fancied I had been called by Mrs. H. My regret is, I did not look at tile
face. but being tired and sleepy I only aaw the figure up to the waist, and
went oft" to sleep with it standing there, never imagining it was not my wife.
That is my laat hallucipation. I have visited scores of death-beds since,
but have had no further visions.
I may add I am in no way nervous, but a strong, middle-aged man, in
excellent health, and very temperate in eating as well as drinking. I don't
quite know how to account for tIlese tllings, except tlJAt both tIlose people
were much in my mind, and botll of tIlem people for whom I had much
reapect and sympatlly. H. A. H.
Mr. H. adds in subsequent letters :-
1 may add, as regards tile first of the two curious visions, that I was very
constantly walking that road at that hour, as I had a weekly service ; but
that was the only occasion my eyes misled me. When I first saw the figure, it;
appeared to be crosaing the road, but in our direction, like a person c1mnging
from the footpath to tile middle of tile road. It was of course somewhat
shadowy, as a person is in the dusk. Still, it had tile look of an old woman;
I could distinguish tile BeL The road is a country one, but on nearing the
riI1age tIlere are some lamp-posts; but we were some distance from them.
It was a cloudy and rather windy night, and there were, of course, shadows
from clouds and trees cast about; it was not deep dark, but more tIlan dusk.
I am 80 acc\1stomed to tIlese walks tlJAt it would be difficult for any natural
object to have caused such an illusion. I was quite sure that an old woman
was tIlere, in the middle of tile road-ao sure tlJAt I did not keep my eye
upon her, and as we came up she was gone. Mrs. H. has ordinary eye-sigbt,
much like my own, neither remarkable for greatacutenesa of vision nor the
re"erae.
I may add too, regarding the second case, tlmt I was fully awake,
though heavy with sleep, and did not dream Mrs. H. awoke me. I am
personally convinced of this, for I wondered, as 1 went off to sleElp again,
that Mrs. H. diel not go, and tIlought she would tell me in another minute
or two that I really must get up. I fell asleep witll the sensation of hel"
presence after my eyes were closed again.
Mrs. H. writes :-
December 23rel, 1885.
As you wisll to ha.ve some corroboration of two curious statements of
facts made to you by my husband, I write a. few lines to tell you my remem-
Digitized by Google
212 Journal qf Society/or PS.'lcllical Resem·ch. [Feb., 1886.
•
brnnce of the occaaionll. We were walking home from a week-night ser"ice,
from a hamlet some distance from here, when I remarked I would not walk
here alono for anything. Mr. H. said, "It is curious we ha"e never met
.anyone." Not long afterwards, as we were nearing the village, he said,
•• Well, here comes some one at last; who is it?" I said, "I don't sce
.anyone." He said, "Oh you must, by the lamp-post; she is putting II
:.shawl over hor head, and coming to Illeet us. Do you know her 1" I B:lid, ~
" Certainly not, for there isn't anyono." He said, .. Anyhow she is coming
<Juickly towards us ; then you muSt soe." In another minute we were both
.sure it must have been some appearanco, and went into the carpenter's close
by, to see if we could hear anything; and his first words were, "\Vell, sir,
I have orders for a coffin for Mrs. B." We both said, "Impossible! she
seemed nicely this afternoon." I know she was anxious to spare my husband
any trouble, as it was a long walk, and we naturally connected it
with this.
As regards the young farmer, he had been much on our minds, as it was
.n distressing case in many ways. \Vord was brought early in the morning
that he was dead; but owing to one of the children not being well, and
having to be in my room, Mr. H. was in an adjoining one, and I would not
disturb him until later. When I went in I said, " Well, poor J. R. is gone."
He said, .. I knew he would be; but why didn't you tell me when you came
in before?" I said, •• I have not been in before." He said, ••Yea, when
'you came in to wake me, and I begged for at all e"ents 10 minutes more."
He then told me what he had said to me-as he thought, and he was sur-
prised I did not all8wer. It must be. 3 or 4 years ago, but I remember
these facts distinctly.
E. H.
[Neither of these cnses would, perhaps, be very striking alone; but they
are of interest as occurnng to the same percipient.]
L.-2368.
}'romMr. J. G.F. Russell (the narrator in Case 2355).
32, Upper Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, \V.
December 18th, 1885.
On \Vedncsday, Decembcr 2nd, 1885, I was woke up nt night, between
12 p.m. and 2 a.m. (1\8 far 1\8 I can recollect), by hearing myself distinctly
·called from a small passage outside my bedroom door ; the ,"oice seemed to
come from just outside the door itself. I got up, fenring Mrs. \Valler, ill the
.adjoining room, was ill, but, as the calling of my name was 110 longer re-
peated. I did 110t then disturb her. (There is no door of communication
between the roums, thtl wall is 8olid, and a gigantic wardrobe is against it.)
Next morning I I\8ked her if she had called me during the night; but she
declared she had slept" like a top," and had never thought of me or anyone
else. I did llot mention the incident to her sister (who had just left us niter
a long visit), but she (Mrs. Waller) did, onretumillg to the country; and I
enclose the result.
gitized by (..oogI
Feb., lsgG.] JOUl'llfllof Snciei!l/or PS!lchicnl RfSM1'ck. 21~
I enclose what Miss Young [a near relative who had been staying for 0.
long time with Mr. Russell and his wife] wrote to me, solely Crom her sister·
mentioning to her my having questioned her. The dates correspond
exactly; it was the first night of Mrs. Waller's visit,
J. G. F. RessELL.
The following is the extract from Miss Young'sletter to ?tIr. Russell:-
I will tell you something that has struck mo ratIleI'. The two nights my
sister was with you in London were very disturbed nights to me ; you were
continually in my dreams, and one of those nights I found myself sitting
up in bed, having wuke myself up by calling you loudly by name. When
she came back she told me you had asked her one morning whether she had
called you in tIle night, as you had distinctly hea.rd your name. I wish I
could remember which night it"'was. I have an impreBBion it was the first.
BLANCHE YOUNP.
Mr. RUBBell, w]lo gave me the account 1,ioo voce on December 16th, has.
explained thnt the wall between his room and the next is BO thick that
even a very loud cry in one would be almost inaudible in tho other; nOl"
did tho BOund scem to come Crom the direction of that other room, but
from outside the door. He has never had such a hallucination on any
other occa.sion.
CORRESPONDENCE.
WHY I BELIEVE IN APPARITIONS.
Mrs. Sidgwick's further instances of haunted houses, published in trIe-
Journal Cor the current month, seem to me to be very well authenticated,
and to bear upon them the stamp of truUI. How this clever lady can herself
doubt the truth of many of the CNles she reports, is, I conCess, a marvel to·
my mind. Take the first case on p. 132, headed "R- Nunnery." Three-
of the witnesses, or rather two of them, saw the ,!!tune flfllll·C. Supposing·
no c:>llt1sion between them, and there seelns to have been none, and pre-
suming their brains healthy, is it not far mm-e likely tllat there 1cas an
objective reality corresponding to their description of it, than that they
eould hM'e each experienced the same optical delusion 1 Even had the-
appearan"e been purely subjective, arising from diseased or overheated
brains, the odds are (I th01II1Cl1Ul to O1Ul against each brain conjuring
up the IIClrne image! The writRr of the narrative appears to have seen
another figure, and the det<tiW.l de.1Cl·iptiOl~ she gives of it precludes, to my
mind, a.ny explanation as to its bcing all optical delusion, or an image born
in the brain. Then, ill the case of "B-- Fields," though in this callO
there was a whisper that the house was haunted, and the nature of the
apparition was also described, yet it seems to me a/llJllrd to suppose that a.
number of young people, presumably sound as to eye8 and brain, should be
perpettlaUy seeing the same t:ill, black figure (1r.hic1~ lti(l pictlU'U frmn siyht
-very strong proof here !) in various parts of the house!"" Even supposing
the possibility of the &arne optical delusion QCcurring to all the WItnesses,
,.Of ~, I am excluding the hypothesis of tI.,~J:trll and falHhood.
Digitized by Google
214 Journal qf &ciet!lfor P3!1cllical Beaem·cl,. [Feb.,1886.
,chat caused tho bright light '/ ,rno shrieked in the maid's ear? and tramped
about the room 7 who knocked the bedroom furniture into confusion 1Surely,
.all this could not have been imagiluttion on the part of thOle concerned, or
they would be all fit candidates for Bedlam! One sense might pOIBibly have
been deceived, but hardly those of lIf.'eitl!}, heari-/tfl, and feeliny as reganls the
aame apparition. What the intense bl(l(:knc&I uf the figure denoted is, of
course, a deep mystery, but wo may well believe the darkneas symbolical of
~vi1, and so feel satisfied this was an unhallowed spirit, of some kind.
But perhaps Mr. Gibson's story is the mOlt strange of all, having regard to
11is iron nerves, his scepticism, his temporate habits, and his ctllnplete till-
preparedltellS fur anything uncanny. Mr. Gibson seems to have seen the
'phantom repeatedly 1cit/wut alnrm, and the opening of the obstinate door is,
to my mind, very strong evidence indeed of-lIupe,-h1tman ageney_ I use the
word" superhuman" advisedly, as I think the word .. supernatural" should
he erased from our dictionaries. How do ,ee know, tve with our brief
glimpses into the domain of Nature and her laws, what may be strictly
termed II1lpcl"twtuI"Cl1 or the reverse 1 Probably flO phcwmle;w'l ,chatsoettr
which has actually occurred on earth is lIupel"llatuml, however strange and
startling it may have been, but being in tlltison tvith cel1ain natural 1atc, of
which mortalll are iglWfflnt, we use that convenient word to r.OI!e'- that same
ignorance! W11at scema supernatural to beings whOle souls are cramped in
a. molecular casket, may seem pelfcctly 'Utt1tral to Itpirit IIC'IIIC (when dis-
embodied), for the whole economy of Nature and her laws may then be
before us, as all open book! 81tperlmman, on the cuntrary, is a ugitilllau
and accurate ternl to apply to these phenomena, which are certainly beY01il1
the pale of ordi-lIartJ hllmal~ expel-knee, 1\ C'e1'!1 different thill!/ to being
beyond the p1'Q1Jince or scope of twtural latcs, which we so imperfectly under-
stand. The reader will, I hope, pardon this digreuion; this word "Iper-
·"(ltftroZ always makes me show my bristles somehow! I will now pass on to
the immediste subject in hand suggested by the heading of this paper.
It seems to me tllat there is a prima facit! probability of the frequent
genuineneu of apparitions_
Paasing by tile Scriptural warrant for tlleir occurrence, as in the case of
SanlUel's appearance to Saul, the Transfiguration, and the apparitions of ilie
saints after tho Crucifixion, which at least show tllat they ha·re appenml to
man in his mouel/ror /lUlte, let us consider what the Soul-the Ego, really
is. Wo l...,IQfV wo are Smd8 vestured with botliell. The Soul must be made of
.wmetllin.g; infinitely rarified tllough its substance be, far lUore so than any
gas known, the fact remains that tho soul must be made of IIOnl.etllill!!, or
there is no such thing as a Soul! Matter is molecular, as wo all know-the
Soul is non-molecular, immaterial to our prellllut senses, probably maurial
to Spirii-lIClIlIC, and composed of some other combination of atolUB than that
which forms molecules. Hence the Soul is i1WitJisible, ultimate, and pre-
cisely as spirit in a tumbler permeates the flr0llllC1- molecules of water, 80
could the infinitely finor particles composing the Soul easily pall throtu;A
walls, doors, &C. Since Soul mustoccupy the u-hole body, and notbeconfined to
(}lIe lJa~rt of it, the irresistible inference is that the 80ul must be shaped lik
tho body. Hore, then, we have arrived at the "eal appal"itioll, which is
simply the diMmbodied Soul, the real Being, the Ego. We have seen tMY
Digitized by Google
Feb., lS8ll.] Journal Qf Society for P,ychiMl Rl'&enrch. 215
material 81c1Mt411CU form no bar to its progreu when entering a room. And
we have the warrant of Scripture for the fact of the disembodied BOul being
visible to men in the flesl1, under certain conditioJl8. .
Here then, it seems to me, we have the whole rationale of 10flll-authellti-
.mud ghost stories. The reason lilly people pooh-pooh them 110 is, as is
well·known, limply through fear of being ridiculed. The belief in appari-
tions is world-wide, and has existed for ages; of course there are numberlesa
impoaitioJl8 on record, and equally obviously an excited or diseased brain
can project images out of itself, which, though really purely subjective, seem
~jtditle to the normal vision. But after making this large deduction from
the huge _ of ghost stories on record there still remain an immenBe
number which cannot be explained away. Tho pouibility of ghoAts appear-
ing, once being admitted, the whole matter is merely a question of evi<lellce,
and to be dealt with accordingly.
.A very thin barrier may divide the seen and UJlBeen worlds. Whyahould
it not ofteu be croBBed by spirits, especially in the case of those who are
'/ra1f)1l to e<trtJ~ as 81(icides and murdererll'
F. B. DOVBTON.
Eaatboume.
P.S.-The question of the appareZ of apparitions is, I confesa, a ",exata
~uutw indeed. Mrs. Crowe attempts BOme explanation of it, but I can't
lay my hand on the paaaage. Your readers may be able to suggest a way out
<of the difficulty.
I am glad to take this opportunity of explaining why the narratives of
haunted hOllseB Bpokenof byMr.Doveton appearto me somewhatlesa important
than most of those whicl1 I quoted in my paper on Phantasms of the Dead,pub-
lished in Part VIII. of the Proceedings. R-- Nunnery, No. 16, is a. case
about which I hope we msy in time obtain more information, but at preBcnt I
-do not put it in the first-clasa because the evidence for the iudependent
appearance of the figure to a second person is at third hand only, aud cannot
therefore be regarded as being strong. In Mr. Gibson's narrative, G. 328, we
have also the testimony of one person only. It is, I think, a remarkable story
<In account of the number of opportunities Mr. Gibson had of observing the
figure, and, as he BaYB, .. Ifit was a trick, I fail to see what it was done for."
.still I cannot convince myself that it was absolutely impoaaible that it Rhould
have been a real man. The opening of the obstinate door was a very
~urious incident, but there is nothing to connect it with the figure.
I do not rank No. 163, B--Fields, among quite tho best stories of
haunted houaea, because it had been suggested to the percipients that it was
haunted by a black figure. There is some reason to suppose that BuggeBtion
and expectation msy determine both the occurrence and the form of a
lWluciJl8tion, and if this be BO we should be very cautious about regarding
any other cause for an appearance as proved, when these are present.
The light in the cook's bedroom may poaaibly, I think, have been due
to a candle. Mary Fo's experience resembleB a dream, and the
disturbance of Misa A. Co'a bedroom fumituro, like the opening of Mr.
Digitized by Google
216 JOIII'1wl qf Soc':ery for PS!If'hical Resl'f1rf'li. [Feb., 1386.
Gibson's door, is not very satisfactorily explained by the ghost, and is unlike
its other proceedings. The narrative seems ro me, however, to be an
interesting and important one. And if I regard those given in the December
and January Journal, as leas important than those on which I laid stress
evidentially in my paper, it is merely" question of degree. As I said in that
paper, I do not think that they should be left out of account in estimating
the whole evidence.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The foUawing additions ha t'e been m.ade since Uut mollth.
FAHNESTOCK (Wm. Baker, M.D.) Statuyolence. Third Edit.ion.........
Philadelphia, N.D.f.
FARMER (John S.) 'Twixt Two Worlds: A Narrative of the Life and
'Work of William Eglinton ....................................•... ...um.dlJ'lt, 188G
Hopps (Johl~ Page) The Future Life .............................. Londcu, N.D....
--Spirit Life in God the Spirit. A New Edition............Lfllulon, N.D.*
--A Scilmtific Basis of Belief in a Future Life ...............umdon, N.D."
MYERS (A. T., M.D.) The Life History of a Case of Double or
Multiple Personality. (Reprinted from the Journal of Mental
Science. January, 188G).............................................Lo1IlIon. 1886.
PEmcE (C. J., and J. Jastrow) On Small Differences of Sensation.
Read before the National Academy of Sciences, U.S.A. 1884f.
SINNETT (A. P.) The" Occult World" Phenomena, and the Society
for Psychical Research, with a Protest by H. P. Blavatsky......
Lalldon, 1886
BAli!SAC (Jules) La. Vie apl'es la Mort. Etemite et Immortalite...Pari". 1886
BEA.UNL'l (H.) Recherches Experimentales sur les Conditions de
l'activit6 cerebrale...................................................... Pa·rU. 1886·
BRUCKSTUCKE aus dem Leben eines siiddeutschen Theologen (2 \·ols.)
Leipz0. 1872 & lSi5
HANAK (Dr. Michael) Geschichte cines natiirlichen Somnambulismus
Leipzig, 1833
HENSEL (Louis) Neueste Offenbarungen iiber das FortIeben und do.s
J enseits ............................................................... Bteglitz, 1886*"
--Anhang zur Philosophie des Geistes............................ ..Bteglit:::, 1886"
HUFELA.ND (Dr. Wiedrich) Ueber Sympathie........................ Weima'r, 1822
MARCA.RD (Dr. and Baron von Strombeck) Geschichte eines animalischell
Magnetis1llu8 ................................................... B·raunllChw.eig, 1815
PREL (Dr. Carl du) Ein Problem fiir Taschenspieler...... •
SPHINX, No.1 (Edited by Dr. Hubbe.Schleiden) ............... Munidl, 1886t
* Presented by the respective Authors. t Presented by the Editor.
gitized by (..oogI
