{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marissa_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Marissa G NDE 3915","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marissa G NDE 3915  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marissa G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1857 Marissa G NDE 3915  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I saw a girl in the hospital bed and knew that she was very ill and dying. With this understanding, I knew it was me and that I was this ill girl.

I had departed from my physical body and was looking at my hospital room from the corner of the ceiling. I saw my father walking up and down looking now and then at the monitors that my body was attached to, I saw my mother sitting in a large armchair quietly. Then they appeared one on my left, one on my right and one behind me.

I felt great wisdom coming from them; they talked to me through thought not sound. They asked me if I wished to go with them or stay.

I had no questions about going with them but asked many about what will be if I decided to stay. Some of my questions were:

1. If I decided to stay will I get better?

2. Will the pain go away?

3. How will I know that all will be okay after I decide to live?

4. Is there something that I am to do on earth and therefore should decide to live?

I was given more or less answers to my questions.

I knew when they didn't want to answer and left it at that.

The moment I made my decision I was back in my body and fell asleep.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was very ill and dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I realized that I was out of my physical body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not sure.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard only them talking to me from within.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three beings appeared one on my left, one on my right and one behind me. I felt great wisdom coming from them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fantastic free release.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     After the experience and up to this day I know much more of what will be than before the experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Faith in a higher energy

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I always believed in a higher energy, what we call God.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Faith in a higher energy

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I always believed in a higher energy, what we call God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   They told me that I had knowledge that I was to pass on.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Much development in healing and connecting with angels.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most significant part was the knowing that I had knowledge that I should pass on. I'm not sure if I would have stayed here on earth if I didn't know that I had knowledge to pass on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took some time to tell people. I studied kabala for a while. Looked for any information I could get my hands on. Until this day I talk to people that I know can accept the experience I had, at least half accept it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     While it was happening and ever since then I've known it to be real. I have never thought for a moment since it happened that it was not real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real and remember it as if it were yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like to know people that had an experience like mine and receive any information on NDEs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marissa_g_nde.html