{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marjorie_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Marjorie H NDE 21359","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marjorie H NDE 21359  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marjorie H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						953  Marjorie H NDE  21359  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was watching my husband undergo an eye exam when I experienced chest pains and passed out. I remember the kind paramedics talking to me, asking what hospital I wanted to be taken to and my doctor's name. I gave his name, but said he was on vacation for the next week. (I'm not sure if this was before or after the out-of-body experience). My first out of body sensation was that I was floating above my body about ten feet in the air. I felt very happy, not exuberant, but calm happy. That everything was wonderful. Then it occurred to me that I must be experiencing an out of body experience and I started looking around for the tunnel. As soon as I did that, I zapped right back into my body. Afterwards, I remembered looking down at my body and thinking it was in pain, but ‘I’ was not.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Wednesday, July 12th, 2006

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Angina (one artery 90% clogged) Paramedics were called.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' .  I suppose I was in danger of a heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating above my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   Except for the floating sensation.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy and peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I was happy to have this experience. It seemed very important, but I don't know if I related it to a near-death experience at the time. My doctor called it a near-death experience. I asked him if I really was near death and he said, ‘near enough.’ I told him I has shared this experience with a number of other people, several of whom said it was drug induced and could be duplicated in the lab with electrodes. This response came from the ‘scientific community’ on the university campus who suspect anything ‘spiritual.’ He clearly didn't believe this explanation and suggested I contact you.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My guess is that this took only seconds, but I'm not sure.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It seemed to me that it happened when I started looking around for the tunnel.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   'raised in Christian Science interested in spiritual matters non-church affiliation'

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   It is hard to communicate the sense of joy and peace.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There was no ‘worst.’ It was all wonderful and encouraging.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    One person gave me an article that claimed, since it could be reproduced in the lab, that it was simple a brain function and not meaningful beyond that. Others took comfort in it, seeing it as an indication that we are more than our bodies. I was pleased to find that my doctor seemed to belong to the latter group.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would be interested in any of your findings that you would be willing to share.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think you did a thorough job. I'd like to keep in touch.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marjorie_h_nde.html