{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marita_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Marita G NDE 1115","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marita G NDE 1115  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marita G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						591  Marita G NDE  1115  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had swollen lungs, so I couldn't lie on my back. I didn't have any asthma medication. I went to bed, had trouble breathing, couldn't breathe fully. Then I fell asleep and experienced that I saw myself lying there.  I saw someone who pressed down on my lungs, as a kind of CPR.


My head was being held up sideways and I felt an arm around my neck on the side I was lying on. I felt rough pressures down my back and saw two hands pressing on my back at the same time. I remember a person who passed away a long time ago, who had thin brown hands and a light blue shirt - that's what I saw. I woke up from it and couldn't breathe properly.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Since my lungs were about to shut down totally, it was life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I looked the same way I do now.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Sleeping.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    But felt rough pressure down my back, was pushed around hard until I woke up.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I have this ability and all the events are correct, all the events I get information about are important and big.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Men tror på existens efter livet.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Body and soul are separate and the soul has to exist for us to be able to walk, talk, and do things. When the soul is gone, you can't exist in the body you have on earth. The body is only a shell; the soul is the important part, the part that survives bodily death.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I've had it all along, but it's deeper now. I get signs about people I'm about to meet and what I'm going to do in my life. It can be about work, health etc.  I know things that are going to happen to all my friends, and everyone I meet. Because I see it while I'm asleep, and the things come true as well. I take medicine for my asthma now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There is no worst part. I know I have something else to fulfill before I meet my loved ones, and that they are always with me, even if they're not earth bound.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My family thought it would have been awful if I'd passed away.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Everything happened so fast, I was simply forced to wake up. And there was more than one helper. It all felt safe and pleasant.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marita_g_nde.html