{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marisa_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Marisa D NDE 23080","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marisa D NDE 23080  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marisa D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4074 Marisa D NDE 23080  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had two experiences that were both were very brief. 

In the first incident, I had broken away from a dysfunctional, dangerous family, so I was all alone in life. I enlisted in the military for protection. I am not sure if I was sleeping and dreaming, but all of a sudden I was standing in the night sky. I was surrounded by many stars.  I was outside and it was neither, warm nor cold.  I only saw stars and the night sky; nothing else. There was no earth, no nature, and no people. One star became enlarged and brightened. A male voice spoke to me and said, 'You will give birth to a son soon. You will raise him alone. You will name him Timothy James. Do not be afraid, you are not alone. He is your angel and you will live a long healthy life with him. Raise him in love. Have no fear.  You will not become the mother that raised you.' Then I made a vow. I felt a sense of peace and comfort. My worries and fear washed away. This happened when I was stationed in Texas. Shortly thereafter, I discovered I was pregnant. 

The second experience happened during childbirth. I was stationed in Washington.  All of a sudden, I stopped hearing the doctors and nurses. I felt my body rising up to a translucent, bright light that had no color. A male voice spoke as my body floated. He said, 'It's not your time yet. You have a son to raise. Have no fear, you are not alone.' Suddenly, I woke up and the nurse was explaining that I passed out and they had to give me oxygen. A couple of weeks thereafter, I discovered that I had a pregnancy-related cardiomyopathy. The doctors thought I needed a heart transplant. They gave me medication to take for 6 weeks. I followed the doctor's orders.  6 weeks later during a follow-up visit, the doctor turned white. He said, 'Nothing is wrong with your heart. You are healthy. Your heart miraculously recovered.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1995 and June 17, 1996
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childbirth.       Experience associated with other. In the first incident, I think I was sleeping, not sure; in the second incident, I was giving birth.  The first incident, no. The second incident, during childbirth, the doctors said that I passed out because I was experiencing heart problems.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had no particular appearance as I just felt so much love and comfort. I did not pay attention to the physical appearances because the experience was more energetic.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A male voice spoke to me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In the first incident, I was standing in the night sky, the Universe. In the second incident, I was floating under the light, Heaven. But I was stopped from entering when I was told that it was not my time.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, and bliss

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     After both incidences, I knew for sure that my life purpose was closely connected to how I raised my son.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I received knowledge of my son.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     In the second incident, I floated under the light, but a resistance stopped me from entering. In the first incident, the sky seemed so close, yet so far away.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic beliefs and principles

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer follow any type of religion. Instead, I leave myself open to receive Divine love and knowledge from the Universe. I believe that God and love is all around us, and the Divine communicates with us through nature, animals, and other humans.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Personal relationships Over the years, I gained insight to how relationships can block us from spiritual growth. So now, I understand why I never married in life. My perspective on friendship and family is very different from most people. Even my relationship with my son, has never fell within the conventions of society.  

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     After both incidences, my sixth sense sharpened. I can feel other people's pain and emotions. I can perceive what blocks them from becoming aware. I can perceive how they live, why they make the choices they make. I can also perceive the ignorance that blocks them from raising their consciousness. I also have the ability to communicate with my son's spirit.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was that I became very different from other people, as my lifestyle does not fall within the convention. I feel like I live on the opposite side of the spectrum. Hence, I am alone most of the time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They just brushed it off. I think they were just confused and did not know how to respond.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marisa_d_nde.html