{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mark_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Mark A NDE 4217","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mark A NDE 4217  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mark A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2055 Mark A NDE 4217  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't recall my crash, but after recovering consciousness and reading the California Highway Patrol Report after recovering from my accident, I believe this is what happened. Upon awakening, I remember seeing a car parked up the road, as if they were watching from afar. I believe they called 911 Emergency and reported the accident. I remember riding along a power line road at about seventy to seventy-five miles per hour. To my left of the road were desert chaparral brushes that were seven or eight feet tall blocking my view to my left. These bushes were long in linear length - seemed like several miles. Since I could not see to my left, I could not see the approaching car. The dirt rode I was on intersected another dirt road and I was blindsided to the approaching car. I must have had an immediate reflex to grab my front brake lever hard, causing the front wheel to lock-up and compress the forks. The rear end catapulted me forward about a hundred feet I flew at seventy to seventy-five mph before hitting the ground. I do not recall seeing the car flying or hitting the ground at all.

I remember that all of a sudden I was somewhere else. I felt no pain nor could I recognize where I was. I had no desire to think about anything else but observe what was in front of me. Now here is where my NDE is completely different from all the other people who may or may not have had one. Mine is nothing at all like what everyone else claims - makes me think of their stories as a repeat of some 'Hollywood' story.

Here is what happened; all of a sudden, there I was watching three hooded figures sitting around a campfire at what appeared to be night. When I crashed it was noon daytime!! I don't know if I was floating or standing or if I was clothed or naked. None of that seemed important, it felt as if I was in a trance watching the campfire and the three hooded figures speak. The campfire flames were dancing rhythmically. The flames were like long silver snake tongues flickering. This was not your typical orange/blue campfire flame. These flames moved independently and danced. They were tall and narrow (three feet x four inches??) and silver in color. I believe that they were alive and some sort of life form too.

The three hooded figures sat like a triangle around the fire, about sixty degrees apart. I remember the hood was over their head and I could not see their faces. I remember the cloaks to be dark colored. They took no notice of me. I stood or floated (not sure which) about twelve feet away. They spoke with three distinctly different voices. I have no idea what they were saying. It was a different language that I could not understand. It reminded me of Hebrew or Speaking in Tongues. I recall people in church who have done that.  That is what it reminded me of. I have no idea how much time had passed, but it was not too long. During this time, there was no floating over my body (like others say in the hospital), there was no light or tunnel with a light at the end, there was no visit from deceased family or friends, and there was no flashing of my life's events before my eyes. I was just all of a sudden there. I have no recollection of time, feeling or even temperature.

I was just there watching the flames and them and listening to their voices. I did not ask them any questions, I don't know if I could even speak. Then all of a sudden, they turned and looked at me and spoke all in unison at the same time. Now I could understand what they said. I don't know if what they said was in English or in their tongue. All I know is that I understood it!! They said to me that I was not supposed to be there!!

It was then that I instantly reappeared at the scene of my accident. I now felt the most pain I ever felt in my whole life!! I did not remember that I crashed or was riding my motorcycle. I remember that I awoke face down in the dirt and my hands were in front of my face, and I said to myself, 'Hmm, I have my motorcycle gloves on,' and then I realized that I was riding my motorcycle and that I must have crashed. The pain was so intense, but my instinct was to stand up. I staggered to my feet, somehow took my helmet off, and noticed my bike a good twenty feet away from where I was. I turned and looked up the road and saw a car parked about fifty yards away. I staggered to the roadside and sat down. I had no idea what happened except that I was in great pain. It was not long before a Paramedic and California Highway Patrol appeared. My crash was very close to the I-10 Interstate that thankfully allowed the ambulance to get there quickly.

I suffered a ruptured spleen and was bleeding internally. I fractured my Thoracic Vertebras T7-T9 in my back, head trauma damaged my pituitary gland, and compound fracture of my left radius arm bone. I spent the next four weeks in intensive care unit at Desert Regional Trauma Center. During my stay there, I nearly passed away a couple of other times from complications. I ended up with blood clots, deep vein thrombosis, to boot!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 16th, 2003'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury  Motorcycle Accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Motorcycle accident that nearly killed me. I believe the witness thought that I was dead and called 911.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe that when I was in this 'other' place of existence, I was fully alert. I don't think I cared about anything else since I was in 'HIS' presence.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Seemed to me that time and space had no value or meaning there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Hard to determine while basking in 'HIS' warmth. But there is the oddity of watching the flames and I remember hearing 'three distinct' voices. It was completely dark, except for the campfire. I could not determine if there was even ground below me. The flames gave off a light like when magnesium burns, very bright silver. However, the three figures were in shadow too. It was very hard to see because the pitch blackness behind them in all directions.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again, I noticed that the voices were different. There were no other sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     To me it was more like the vacuum of space, a void of everything, no sights or sounds other than what I described. I don't know if it was hot or cold either.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As I mentioned there were three other beings. Perhaps the Trinity? Father, Son and Holy Spirit.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The silver flames of the campfire.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I suppose it was both listings below:  Incredible peace and/or pleasantness as well as Relief and/or calmness.  There was no thought about my life on earth whatsoever.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   The three beings I encountered clearly did!!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Still trying to understand why I was sent back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Hard to describe - but my dreams seem to be much more intense vivid and repeat stories that continue to evolve. I wish I could write about these. I suspect this is how Stephen King gets his ideas.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The hardest part is trying to understand 'why I was sent back?' I always thought the Tree of Life knows when and where we are supposed to die. And if so, how could I have come this close and cross-over? Also, what am I supposed to do with this knowledge now?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with many different people. People with religious backgrounds seem to be more interested, while others claim it was my imagination while unconscious, like dreaming.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard of 'Go to the Light' or 'seeing your life flash before your eyes' or being visited by a dead loved one who is your guide.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I remembered it immediately after I woke up and staggered to my feet; it all came flooding back to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remembered it immediately after I woke up and staggered to my feet; it all came flooding back to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't think 'man' can reproduce this. This is beyond our control, and a journey we all must take at the time of our death.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Should you want to speak with me, please contact me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mark_a_nde.html