{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marisol_hf_nde.html","mytitle":"Marisol HF NDE 2457","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marisol HF NDE 2457  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marisol HF NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						813  Marisol HF NDE  2457  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  

I had an automobile accident in 1991. An Isuzu Trooper ran into me in my Nissan 200zx. I was dragged into the other lane when I was hit on the right side of the car. The passenger seat came out of its place and struck me on the right side of my head. They had to cut the door of the car off with hydraulic shears since the other side couldn't be opened because it was caught in a fence. They realized that I wasn't responding and that my vital signs were weak so they knew I had gone into cardiac and respiratory arrest. They tried to revive me but could see I wasn't responding. My pupils had dilated. I was in a coma. They transferred me to the Medical Center in San Juan to give me first aid. Three weeks later, they transferred me after I came out of my coma. They operated on my right eye twice for diplopia (that is 'double vision' and my eye changed its orientation). When I awakened, I didn't recognize my husband. Speaking with all candor, I did not like him at all. I recognized my mom and dad and my siblings, but not my husband. I always ask myself, 'Why?' I asked him and he told me he didn't know. It finally came out that he abused me verbally. You might ask yourself how I found this out and the answer is that I found a diary where I wrote EVERYTHING. My taste in clothing changed, my favorite colors are now different.

When I came out of my coma, I remembered hearing the cries of two babies. I remember they were twins, a boy and a girl. My mom told me they never existed but I said that they did. About a year later, I was feeling very sad in the kitchen of my house. I suddenly began crying.  Out of the blue I saw a small child about two years old who looked and me and smiled. A child who radiated much light. My sadness rapidly left me. I went to touch him and he disappeared.

I got pregnant while in the hospital. I had a beautiful baby boy who was born with good health, thank God. He weighed ten pounds and is the light of my life. My son gave me the strength to continue struggling and because of him, I kept on going with much optimism.

The doctor who took care of me when I had my accident told me I wouldn't be the same. (It's true I'm not the same. I'm a better human being.) He told my parents that I wouldn't be able to study because my memory couldn't retain information. He said I wouldn't be able to drive a car again. I couldn't write nor walk. I surprised him by giving my best effort. Today I drive, I write, and I study. I finished high school in education, I walk really well, I write pretty well although I write slowly.

My recuperation was slow. I was often in a bad mood because it took me so long to do anything specific, but this helped me develop tolerance, it taught me to be patient.  Above all else, I learned that we don't achieve things when we want to, but rather when it is right for us to do so.

I now value life more. I am more sensitive to the pain of others. I value my family more. I love with greater intensity. Now I have another husband who loves me, who values me and accepts me as I am.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1991  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a coma from a car accident. I suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest and they resuscitated me with electroshock.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Now I sleep less, I'm more aware of everything around me. I give greater importance to everything and everybody.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in a coma the whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was like another world.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I came out of the coma I had to use dark glasses because the light bothered me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was incredible. I was in a completely dark tunnel. There was no floor. I was floating. At the end, I saw a very small light. I heard voices in the distance but couldn't understand what they said. It was like being in a library where you hear people speaking softly. There was an incredible scent of red roses. I began to walk and walk and walk. I wanted to get to the light because it would take me to a special place. I noticed I wasn't getting any closer to the light and I began to raise my hands. I began praying and said, 'Lord, my soul praises and glorifies you. Help me God. I want to get to the light and I can't.' Suddenly I did.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I was in the tunnel and began to pray, an angel appeared to me. When the angel appeared, the scent of roses became stronger and he spoke to me in a perfect tone of voice. The smell that came out of his mouth was of roses. He told me, 'Daughter, do not worry. You have chosen the correct path.' When he told me this I began to get nearer to the light, and when I saw that I could enter into this light, I did and it was as if throwing myself into a void. I began seeing everything as really too white and of much clarity. Suddenly I saw clouds, birds, I saw a very beautiful garden, and I saw flowers. Suddenly I saw a large door and I drew close in order to enter it. The door was closed. I began to open the door in order to enter through it. A venerable man dressed in white came near to me and said, 'Daughter, NO. It is not your time yet. You have to go back. There are things left for you to accomplish.' Abruptly, I began to be without air when I tried to breathe because I was out of breath. My mother was touching me. It was at that point that my great adventure of 'returning to planet earth' began.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was such a strong light you couldn't look at it much without going blind. The time came when I looked at it so much everything turned white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Lo narre en un parrafó anterior.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a degree of happiness as never before. I didn't want to return. I felt peace, security as never before. I felt love, I felt joy, Purity, there was no time or space.  There was an incredible scent of roses among other emotions.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Cat≤lica Carismßtica  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They have increased positively.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Cat≤lica Carismßtica al 100% La FE es aun mayor  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     They have increased positively.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   In heaven there is peace and love as it says in the Bible.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I will explain shortly.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I learned to speak, eat and to get about.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I foresee things.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With everybody who comes near me. In church, parents, friends.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       At another time.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything is perfect. I'm happy because I was looking for you and I found you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marisol_hf_nde.html