{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7386","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n26_mar_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N26 March 1886","mylang":"de"}
YG.' un-ToL. U.
JOURNAL
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New JlaDben aa"AIIocb&n.••
...... of Ooancll .• .•
-.,an ot&be Oeoenl )[eetIDR
~ Barntt OD IIpiriltlAb8aa ••
"8~ZN... .• ... ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOOIATES.
MEMBERS.
LAuluB, R. NORTHALL, Palace Chambers, Westminster, S.W.
RoOL'fBOY, ARTHUR, Jesus College, Cambridge.
PAO••
..• i1lT
•. 217
.. 2IS
..• 129
... !lI1
&r.umopB, THE RT. Hoy. E., M.P., 23, Eccleston Square, London, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
BAR.'fBTl', MRS. S. A., St. J ude's Vicarage, Whitechapel, London, E.
Corr, STAIYTON, Ph.D., Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
F.ullER, JOHY S., 16, Craven Street, London, W.C.
lUscALL, MRS. MYRA P. F., Switzerland.
PARTRIDGE, MRS. 118, Qlleen's Road, Bayswa.ter, L:lDdon, W.
RICUARDSOY, P., King's College, Cambridge.
RoBIYBOY, MRS. LIONRL, 19, Kensington Square, London, W.
TAftBRSALL, WK., 90, High Street, Oxford.
WARD, TUB HON. MISS, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
A Oouncil meeting was held on the 6tb inst., Professor H. Sidgwick
in the chair, when the following members were also present :-Professor
W. F. Barrett, Messrs. A. Calder, W. H. Coffiu, Edmund Gurney,
Richard Hodgson, O. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, and Frank Podmore.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed 'as
correct.
Three new Members and nine new Associates, whose names and
addrMSe8 are given above, were elected.
Miss Marten, an Associate, applied to become a Member, in order
that she may borrow baoks from the libra.ry. It was agreed to accede
to her request.
The following donations were reported, and were directed to be
acknowledged with thanks :-From Mrs. Chas. Holland, £5 ; from Mr.
W. G. Arkwright, who.. in sending his annual subscription as an
Associate, inclosed it in a cheque for £5; and from Mr. E. T. Nisbet,
an Honorary Associate, £1 la.
o
Digitized by Google
218 JOlu'nat ql Societ!l/or P8!1cllical Re8e(,l'd;. March. 181!6.
Mr. Myers informed the Council that Mrs. Chas. Kingsley had pre-
sented the Socie~y with some valuable books which had belonged to the
p.ev. Chu. Kingsley. Reuolved that the thanks of the Council be con-
veyed to her for her gift.
The usual Cash Account, made up to the 28th ult., was presented,
and one account passed for payment.
A desire having been felt fOl' greater facilities for the judicious
private circulation of the Journal, it was resolved that Mp.mben and
Associates have the right of purchasing additional copies at Is. each.
New Members and Associates, onjQining the Society, can still purchase
back numbers of the Journal at 6d. each.
It was resolved that the following Honorary Associates be I'(Hllected
for the coming yea.r :-Mr. Sidney H. Beard, Mr. Ja.mes Birchall, Mrs.
Brietzcke, Rev. A. M. Creery, Miss M. Curtis, Rev. A. T. Fryer, :Mr.
Edward Grubb, Miss Hancock, Captain James, llr. E. Vaughan
Jenkins, Mr. J. G. Keulemans, Rev. J. A. Macdonald, Hon. Mrs.
Montgomery Moore, Mr. E.'T. Nisbet, Mrs. Saxby, Mrs. Scudamore,
Rev. E. H. Sugden, Major Woodhull.
The next Meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the 2ndof
April, at 4.30 p.m.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
Saturday, March 6th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists.
Suffolk Street, Pall Mall.
In the absence of the President, the chair was taken by Professor
H. Sidgwick.
The Chairman, before calling on Professor Barrett to read his
paper, "On some Physical Phenomena commonly called 'Spiritualistic'
witnessed by the author," thought it desirable to state that the
paper was intended to initiate a discussion which might be continued
at future meetings; and in which it was hoped that the evidence
a.lready accumulated on this branch of the Society's inquiry, might
receive full consideration.
As the commencement of this discussion was to a. certain extent II.
new departure, he might perhaps offer 0. few words of explanation to
tiliow why this new departure was taken now, a.nd also why it was not
taken before. It would be remembered that the Society was originally
formed by a. combination of two elements occupying distinct positions
on this subject,-those whom he might call broadly believers in the
phenomena of "Spiritualism," and those who merely thought that the
evidence for these phenomena was, in quantity and quality, BUch as to
deserve serious and systematic investigation. These two portions of
the Society, disagreeing as theydid as to the exact weight of the evidence
Digitized by Google
llarcJa, l886.] Journal fit &Ciet!1 for P'JlMical Re,earcA. 219
already collected, were thoroughly agreed on what then seemed the most
important point, viz., the desirability of further experiment.
At the outset of the Society's work it seemed in the interests of
harmony desirable to prosecute the new investigation in which both
parties were prepared to co-operate, rather than to raise discussion-
which, from the delicate natura of the arguments that must inevit-
ably be introduced, was liable to become acrimonious-on the
question on which the two parties were disa.greed. Accordingly, a
Committee \\"&8 formed for experimental investigation of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism. Experiments were made both by the
Committee and by private individuals belonging to the more sceptical
element of the Society outside the Committee. Unfortunately, these
experiments have so far led to no positive result. The Committee
expired without seeing their.way to present a report, and-speaking as
ODe member of the sceptical party-he was obliged to say that he had
not advanced beyond the position he occupied when the Society was
founded, viz., that of holding that there was a prim.a /atM case for
&erious investigation.
In the meantime he thought that, in the period that had elapsed
.moe the Society's foundation, it had acquired a tolerably established
position, and that, consequently, the dangers involved in a public
discussion between its two somewhat heterogeneous elements were by
DO means so great now &8 they would have been four years ago. It
appeared also that a prolonged exclusion of this subject from the
published records of the Society's work would be liable to be misunder-
stood, and would probably be attributed to a disinclination to face
uupala~ble facts, or to a desire to avoid the expression of unpopular
opinion. He therefore had much pleasuro in calling on Professor
Barrett to read his paper.
Professor Barrett began by pointing eut that whether Spiritualism
were regarded as worthy or unworthy of serious inquiry depended
cbiefly upon the place where each person drew the boundary line that,
in his own mind, divided the possible from the impossible. It would
be folly to waste time upon such things &8 circle-squaring, or a search
for perpetual motion. These are placed beyond the pale of
investigation, from already existing knowledge. But there a.re other
thingswhich involve no contradictionof whatis a.lready well established,
but only an enlargement of our knowledge in certain directions; e.g.,
the aea-serpent, thought-transference, clairvoyance, the phenomena of
Spiritualism, and only a few years ago we should bave said the
telephone and the phonograph. There were some wbo regarded
II Spiritualism" as so intrinsically impossible that its investigation
_hould not ba.ve formed one of the objects of the Society, while others
thought it should have been in the forefront of the Society's programme.
o 2
Digitized by Google
220 Journal 01 Societ!llor Psychical ResearCh. [March. 18S6.
Professor Barrett regretted that no report ho.d been published by
the Committee originally organised to investigate the subject, although
this omission no doubt arose from their being unable to obtain any
conclusive evidence. A record of the conditions a.nd results of experi-
ments WI\S desirable. The instruments necessary for the inquiry into
Spiritualism were living beings, and comparatively few in number, and
if, after an o.dequate examination, no phenomena new to science should
be exhibited, we should publish the negative evidence, and pass on to
more profitable fields of inquiry. But such an o.dequo.te examination
bad not yet been made. The real difficulty was in arriving at ccmclu-
6ive evidence pointing one way or the other. Non-professional mediums
were difficult of access, and professional mediums were opea to the
charge of being conjurers. Nevertheless, he thought that teats might
be employed which would exclude the hypothesis of conjuring, and that
the difficulty of arriving at conclusive evidence ho.d been exaggerated.
In this connection he referred to the evidence of the late Professor de
Morgan, and Professor Zollner, and also that of Mr. Crookes, and stated
his own conviction that at any rate some of the simpler phenomena of
Spiritualism were inexplicable by any causes at present recognised by
science. He then proceeded to refer to phenomena witnessed by him-
self. Mostof these were of no evidential value in favour of Spiritualism.
But four or five cases stood out as exceptions; they occurred in the years
1875 and 1876, and full notes of each were taken at the time.
In the first two cases the sittings were with private mediums; in
the last case the sitting was with 0. professional medium.
In the first case he would describe he had every opportunity of
close and frequent investigation, and he had the records of numerous
sittings extending through the months of August and September, 18i5.
At one sitting there were present besides himself, Mr. and Mrs. C.
and their young daughter F.-the medium-ft. bright, frank, and intel-
ligent child, then about ten years old. Time, 10 l1.m. They sat at a
large dining-room table facing the French windows, which let in a flood
of sunlight, so that the sitters' feet as well as hands could be perfectly
seen. Shortly, a sort of scraping sound was heard on the surface of the
table; the sound moved about, but was loudest when near the medium,
F. Raps were also heard sometimes on the table, sometimes on the
back of the chairs on which they sat. F.'s hands and feet were closely
watChed; they were absolutely motionless when the sounds were heanL
After 0. few sittings the sounds grew in loudness, often being as loud
as, and very much resembling, the hammering of nails into a floor.
They came more readily and more loudly when music was played, or a
merry song struck up, and invariably they kept time with the music.
Sometimes a loud rhythmic scraping, as of a violoncello bow on a piece
of wood, would accompany the music. Again and again he placed his
gitized by (.oogI
Karch, 1886.) Journal of 80cietU lor PS!lcllical Research. 221
ear on the very spot on the table whence this rough fiddling appeared
to proceed, and felt distinctly the rhythmic vibration of the table, but
no tangible cause was visible either above or below the table. Experi-
m!!nta were made on the possibility of localising sollnds such 1109 were
heard; and so far as his experiments went he fOlllld that he could tell,
within six inches, the position on a large table, when a knock W&ll made
by a friend beneath the table, and out of sight. The ability to loca.liae
a sound depended very much on the nature of the sOllnd; the sounds
made by a. siren or by a singing flame were extremely difficult to localise.
But he felt pretty confident that the knocks and scraping sounds pro-
ceeded from a source certainly within a foot of the position a.ssigned;
and he noticed particularly that the sounds, though feebler tha.n when
near, were sometimes heard ten or twelve feet away from the medium.
On one occasion, when no one else was in the room, and it W&ll broad
daylight as usual, he &liked the medium to put her hands against the
wall and see how far she could stretch her feet back from the wall
without tumbling down. This she did, and whilst she W&II in this
constrained position, he &liked for the knocks to come. Immediately a.
brisk pattering of raps followed, the child remaining quite motionless
the whole time. Professor Barrett ga.ve further details concerning the
sollnds occurring in connection with F., mentioning that on one occasion
a word was misapelt by raps exactly as the child misapelt that word, as
he afterwards ascertained; but that a long and careful examination
convinced him that trickery on the part of the child W&ll a more im-
probable hypothesis than that the sounds proceeded from an unknown
agency. After some three months, the sounds disappeared &II unex-
pecte<lly as they had arisen. In reviewing the evidence, Professor
Barrett said that we must take into account the ·hypothesis that some
children exhibit an amazing passion for deceiving their elders, and some
possess an extraordinary love of notoriety, but he confessed that in this
case he could come to no other conclusion than that we had there a
class of phenomena wholly new to science.
He then gave some of the details of phenomena occurring in con-
nection with a middle-a.ged lady in priva.te life, who had found this
abnormal "mediumistic" power gradually develop in her presence,
and he said that in this co.se also he could not avoid the conclusion
that the phenomena described were inexplicable by any known
hypothesis. He considered this case, however, to be of less evidential
value than the previous one, where his opportunities 'were greater for
testing the phenomena under varying conditions.
The third case described by Professor Barrett was, he said, exactly
of the sort he would wish to ha.ve a. conjurer's opinion upon before
affirming that it could not·be produced by trickery. The sitting
he would describe W&ll with the professional medium, Mr. Eglinton.
DiQitizedbyGoogle ~
222 Journal fl.'Soc"ctg for P81/clu'cal Be_rch. [Haroh, 1881.
On January 5th, 1878, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood arranged for a
sitting at his own house at Queen Anne-street. The observers present,
besides Professor Barrett, were Mr. Wedgwood. his sister, 'Mr. A. R.
Wallace, and Mr. F. W. H. Myers. The seance was h"ld in Mr.
Wedgwood's library at 4 p.m. When the medium arrived, Professor
Barrett was permitted to take whatever precautions he thought
necessary to prevent fraud on his part. Professor Barrett then
described the fastenings to which he submitted the medium, so that,
although the medium (who was placed sitting on a chair in the corner
of the room, with his hands together behind him) could, if he chose,
move his legs freely and also tum or nod his head, he could not move
the trunk of h~1I body nor his hands nor arms without breaking the
fo.stenings. A couple of small curtains, running on a rail over the
medium's head, were then drawn nearly together in front of the
medium, leaving a space of from four to six inches exactly opposite the
central line of his body. Through this space his face and front of his
body could be seen. The curtains hung down on each side of the
chair on which the medium sat, so that his legs, from the waist down-
ward were entirely in front of the curtain. A gas jet, which was
the principal light in the room (the window curtains having been
drawn), was then lowered, but there was plenty of light to allow of
the observers' seeing one another. They seated themselves
close to the medium, Professor Barrett being so close that Dot
a foot inten-ened between himself and the medium. Professor Barrett
could see that the medium's hea.cl presently drooped, and that he
went into a sort of trance, whether real or assumed Professor Barrett.
could not say. Knockings were then heard, and upon repeating the
alphabet slowly a message was spelt out. Professor Barrett asked.
" Oan you move anything in the room t" It said by knocks it would
try, but nothing was moved. Either one of the observers or else the
knocks suggested putting some objects near the medium. Professor
Barrett got up and took out three or four books at random, and placed
them in a pile on the lap of the medium, alld catching sight of a BDlall
handbell, added this on the top of all Upon seating himself by the
medium's side, he noticed there WAS enough light in the room to read
the time by his watch true to a second. In a few minutes after this,
whilst closely watching the motionless figure of the medium, he
distinctly saw the upper half of·,the pilo of books move, the cover of
the middle book opening, and allowing the Olles above it and the bell
to incline to an angle of at least 45", which he subsequently found was
considerably beyond the angle of repose for the bell on a cloth-bound
book. The bell did not fall oft', did not stir, in fact, in the least
relatively to the cover of the book; the leaves of the book were then
dropped after one another, and then opened up again. Then the lower
Digitized by Google
Jlarcb, 1886.J Journal qf Societylor P'!Jclaical ResearclJ. 223
book opened, and its leaves were deliberately let fall. The whole
proceeding was exactly such as would occur if two hands were placed
on each side of the volumes, and thei!· leaves slowly run over by first
lifting up the body of the book, and then allowing the leaves to drop
past, the fingers rubbing against them as they fell. During this process
a third hand would seem to be required to keep the bell in its place.
He brought his eyes to within 12 inches of the books whilst they were
moving, and certainly no human hands were there. Professor Barrett
gave other details, and stated that at the end of the sitting tho medium
was found fast asleep, and the fastenings intact. He then discussed
the hypotheses of hallucination and fraud, and said that if the medium
was the operator he could not conjecture how the performance was
accomplished. The most plausible explanation, he thought, was mis-
description on his part, a clever bit of juggling in moving books being
mistaken for a larger movement, and ultimately exaggerated into the
effect described. But he had quoted from his notes taken at the time,
and was not conscious of any exaggeration. Nor did he think it
legitimate to apply this exaggeration hypothesis to each case as it arose,
and so dispose of an army of observers in detail. When the first
observers of a slowly-moving electric fireball recounted what they had
seen, they were naturally suspected of exaggerdion, or as the victims
of some illusion. But as concordant testimony from other independent
observers came in, disbelief had been given up, and electric firebo.1ls
were now accepted as an enigmatic freak of that inexplicable agency
electricity. Similarly, physical phenomena., such as he had described,
might be regarded as unaccountable freaks of that mysterious agency
we called mind.
He thought there was enough evidence from trustworthy inde-
pendent observers, to outweigh the antecedent improbability of the
alleged facts, and e,·en to establish a strong presumption in their
favour, and was of opinion that the most hopeful advance on the
subject would be made by daring hypotheses based upon the study of
existing evidence. We must clear the ground first by the theories of
imposture, unconscious muscular action, hallucination, exaggeration,
and telepathic action, but these hypotheses did not, in his opinion,
exhaust all the evidence that exists. Nothing that he had seen or read
had given him any adequate proof of extra-human intelligence, but he
had been led to conjecture that under conditions which are so restricted
that we are not put to intellectual confusion by frequent interruptions
of the ordinary course of material la.ws, mind could ace upon 1IUJUer
directly. Upon the organised matter of the brain, mind could and did
act, i.e., if we admitted mind apart from matter. He then referred
to conditions of success in experimenters, and urged that sympathy, or
at any rate the absence of mental antagonism, might possibly be one
gitized by (.oogI
224 Journal qf BoNtN/or P'!lcllical &lIMrch. [Marcb.l8IIIL
of these conditions, and just as neceaaary in the psychological world
as certain material conditions in the physical world. This sympathy
was quite compatible with calm judgment and a clear and accurate
observation. Illustrating these remarks by an analogy, he then said
that it was because all theories on thi. subject were 10 unrelated to our
existing knowledge of the physical world that the psychological
problems before us received such scant recognition at the hands of
scientific men; but he had good hope that "Spiritualistic phenomena "
would eventually be accepted as an integral part of the dual world of
matter and mind in which we live, and that a reverent, hopeful, &lid
withal more humble attitude would prevail towards the infinite
possibilities that are in each of us.
As no one offered any remarks upon Professor Barrett's paper, the
Chairman called upon Mr. F. W. H. Myers, who desired to make &
communication upon a cognate subject.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers made lOme remarks, of which the following
is a modified abstract :-1 have been asked to reply to a question which
has been sent to the editor of the Journal, namely, whether we ll&ve
as yet obtained satisfactory evidence of the communication through
planchette of facts unknown to any of the sitters. Since the publication
of a paper in Proceeding. VIII. (May, 1885), I have received about a
dozen cases more or less valuable, and the editor of LigTII. haa published
lOme cases, and informs me that he has received lOme others yet unpub-
lished. I have also several other cases still in view. I have not as yetgot
enough evidence to justify a positive assertion that unknown facts are
given through planchette, except, perhaps, as regards one special kind of
information, nn.mely, the details ofobjects present in the room, but unseen
by the sitters. Professor-Barrett's paper has contained lOme similar cases,
where raps formed the medium of information instead of writing. But if
:we accept the phenomenon, we ought surely first to consider whether the
narrowly-defined knowledge thus communicated may not be gained by
unconscious clainooyance on the part of the sitters.
Again, I have good evidence of the production of handwriting re-
sembling that of deceased persons-a better imitation than the writer
can normally produce. It is, however, quite in accordance with analogy
to suppose that our unconscious selves may be more skilful in mimicry
than our conscious selves. This is the case with the subjects of
hypnotic suggestion of \'8.rious kinds; and M. Richet has lately made
some. interesting experiments (which I have repeated on a subject of my
own) on the handwriting of a hypnotised person when told that he is
Napoleon" or a young child, kc. The results present a pretty close
parallel to my planchette eases; and I think that we must not take
the reproduction of known handwritings as a proof of anything beyond
lOme supernormality in the writer's state.
Digitized by Google
lhreb, l8II6.] Journal qf 8oc~tu for P'gclli«ll &wire". 225
I earnestly wish that the example of diligence and care set by Mr.
and Mrs. Newnham in the persistent continuance and immediate record
of these planchette experiments might induce other persons to do the
like. Here is a form of experiment which lies within the power of many
people, and which may in anyone'. handa lead to moat valuable results
It has been practised, more or leas, for thirty years or so j yet what
published records have we of any prolonged trials except "M.A. (Oxon)'s'·
and Mr. Newnha.m's1 We have some good accounts of single sittings,
but of course one desires that anyone obtaining success in one sitting
mould keep a record extending over weeks or months, so as to repeat
that success, if possible, and to exclude the possibility of chance. I
would venture to ask those who are convinced that these writings do
come from extraneous intelligences to make a far more persistent and
careful effort to prove this than anyone except" M.A. (Oxon)" has yet
&iven to the world.
The moat remarkable fact, perhaps, bearing on automatic writing,
which has c~me to light since I last reported to you on the subject,
consistsof certain details in the later life-history of LouisV--:-, the man
of many personalities, of whom I have repeatedly spoken. An account
of his present state, by Dr. Myers, will be found in the Journal qf
Jlffllal8cienu for January, and no doubt our Society will conc~rn itself
further with some of the phenomena involved. For the present I will
take one point alone. Louis V-- is now in the asylum at La Rochelle,
and has six personalities. I speak here only of the trallSition from
State L to State II. In what is now classed as State I. (though it was
not the patient's earliest condition), he is pa.ralysed and insensible on
the right side. He is talkative, violent, and arrogant. His language is
coarse, and he addresses everyone with gross and impudent familiarity,
. giving nicknames, and making bad jokes. He is a Radical in politics,
and an atheist in religion. He is extremely fond of holding forth on
these topics, but his speech is indistinct and defective. Of his past life
he remembers only certain portions, more or less akin to his present
atate. Among the six states this is the only one in which there is
right hemiplegia; and it is also the only one in which the character
is violent and bad. Whenever -the left brain dominates, Louis V--'s
disposition is good, though there are many variations in hia intelli.
gence and his memory, linked with variations in his motor and sensory
systems.
Now let a bar of steel be placed on his right arm. His respiration
becomes quick, his expression anxious; in about a minute the paralysis
and the aOleSthesia are transferred from the right side to the left. At
the same time the difficulty of speech disappears, and the patient's pro-
Ilunciation becomes easy and clear. TllUS far, though the case is
remarkahle, it is not quit:e unique. But now comes the unique point.
Digitized by Google
226 JOfJrnol qf Society/or Pagc"icalReaearc/I. [Marcb, 1886.
Together with the sensory and motor changes there is a change in
memory and a change in character. He is now gentle, well-mannered.
and modest. He speaks respectfully to the physicians whom a couple
of minutes before he has been calling by abusive nicknaInes. Asked
his opinion on politios or religion, he prefers to leave those matters to
wiser heads tlw.n his own. He is obedient to discipline, and his ex-
pression of countenance is gentle and sympathetic. His memory
embraces part of his stay at Sainte Anne, and at Bicetre, at which
latter asylum he imagines himself still to be.
And now for the connection of this case with our present subject.
It will be remembered that Mr. Newnlw.m, puzzled to account for the
freakish and non-moral charo.cter of some of the replies written by
Mrs. Newnham's hand, suggested, as a possible hypothesis," that "if the
•
untrained side of the brain be suddenly stimulated to action, ita
behaviour is apt to resemble that of a child whose education has not
been properly attended to." In commenting on this and other cases, I
endeavoured to show that there was reason to suppose that the riglal,
or less-used, hemisphere was concerned in supernormal mentation; and
I traced especially analogies between aphasia and cerebral automatismj
the inference being tlw.t in each case work was thrown on dextro-
cerebral centres which was habitually performed by sinistro-cerebral
I summed up (p. 60) by saying that "although I hold that the right
hemisphere had much to do with Mrs. Newnham's replies, • • . I
cannot find any well-recognised doctrine of cerebral loca.lisation which
authorises us to draw any conclusion as to the way in which &
temporary predominance of dextrcH:erebral centres might affect the
manifestation of moral character; • • and I should of course be
unwilling in such a matter to go a step beyond the consensus of the
best scientific opinion. So far as the questions at issue are purely
physiological, I can aim at nothing more than attentive study of the
labours of others." I do not regret the caution of the tone here used.
For I hold it eminently important tbat we who are thus speculating in
a novel realm should not improvise a fancy physiology to suit our own
ideas-that we should cite chapter and verse for any physiological fact
or theory on which we base further deductions. But now I find that
the suggestion which I hesitated to accept in full, although all my own
arguments pointed directly that way, simply for la.;:k of a recorded
cue where right hemiplegia had inIVolved a moral tone different from
that involved in left hemiplegia in the same subject,-I find, I say,
this very suggestion of the moral difference of the two hemispheres
put forth and endorsed by physicians of eminence, apropol of a
• PI'OCeedi'tgl, Vol. III., p. 22-
Digitized by Google
March, 1886.) Journal of Society for P8!Jcllical &I/cnrch. 227
case* on which no theory of the kind hod been foundtld at the time when
mypaper was written. Corroborativeillstances, of course, are stilIneeded,
for the coarse organic injuries of the brain which are most commonly met
with do not show themselves in nuances of character.
But it is to be observed that the most crucial test which could
have been devised for the theory in question would have been one
where (as in Louis V--'s casc) the functions of the two hemispheres
were subject to so profound a disassociation that there was actually a
~xclusive alternation of memories according as one or the other hemi-
sphere assumed the predominance. Suppose that in an ordina.ry case
of hysterical hemiplegia the hemiplegia is transferred by metallic
COlltact, suggestion, or otherwise, from the right side to the left.
Suppose, further, that the patient exhibits more irritability, &c., when
paralysed on the right than on the left side. Such a case would hardly
afford a presumption that the highest ideational and emotional centres
were directly affected by the transfer of the paralysis; the change in
temper might merely depend on the greater or less malaise caused by
some change in the affection of lower centres; for, of course, we can-
not assume that 0. hysterical hemiplegia, whose external signs may be
symmetrical whether it affects the right or left side, is in reality
symmetrical in its interna.l or subjective manifestation.
But in Louis V--'s case the character, as it were, startsIresl, with
the transfer of the hemiplegia.; it can exhibit itself untrammelled by a.ny
continuity of memory with the previous state; we can judge it de
fW!1O, and, so to say, from top to bottom. And we find that the pre-
dominance of the righthemisphere comports a marked reversionto savage
characteristics, a marked emotional explosiveness and ideational crudity.
Let us see how this view coheres with what we already know of the
difference between the two hemispheres. We start, of course, from the
notorious fact that our right hands are more .. dexterous" than our left;
that is, that the sinistro-cerebral hand-governing centres are superior
in development to the dextro-cerebral hand-governing centres. There
has been som~ controversy as to how far this is the result of education
in the individual, or how far it depends on some asymmetry of the
circulatory system. I cannot, of course, give any opinion as to the
original anatomical reason for the selection of the right as the dominant
hand, but I can hardly doubt that the superiority in the sinistro-
cerebral centres concerned is now & hereditary thing,-does not depend
merely on the education of the individual child.
• M. Jules Voisin writes in the A rcliives de N ~Itrologie, September, 1885. The
opinion of MM. Bourrn and Burot is given (with complete adhesion)by Dr. Ber-
jon in his tractate .. LaGrande Hy.Une chez l'Homme "(Paris: Uailliere, 1886),
page 53. I need hardly say that the transfer of activity between the two hemi·
IIplieres is alm08tcertainly not the only alteration of cerebral action which occura
in these changes of state. See Proceedingll IlL, p.43.
gitized by (.oogI
228 Journal qf Societ!! /01' P,!!clJical RelJeorc!,. [March, l886.
Going one step higher, it is now pretty generally admitted toot the
l!Iinistro-cerebral speech-centres are more evolved than the dext.a.
cerebral. And here we come "ery near to an actual difference in the
power of summoning up ideas or emotions. For .igm are so closely
connected. with thinking that it would surprise us to see an aphasic
patient retaining for long the same mental clearness as before his
affliction. And our emotions themselves are greatly modified by the
expression whicb we give to them. An aphasic (for instance) who can
express disagreement only by an oath is likely to lose bis sense of COD-
troversial deference and courtesy. Well, what is now contended is,
that just as there may be a right hemiplegia which does not involve
r..pbasia, and, again, a right hemiplegia so far involving the higher centres
that aphasia accompanies it, so also, in this case of a diBBOOiation almost
unique in its profundity between the activities of the two hemispherei,
there was made manifest a difference in stage of evolution between the
/,ig/,flJII, sinistro-cerebraland dextro-cerebral centres-those which preside
over emotion and ideation. And I go fa.rther, and conjecture that this
difference may exist in all of us, and that just as certain of our visceral
arrangements retain the traces of our pre-human ancestry, and just as
our dextro-cerebral speech-centres are often stammering, childish, or
wholly inefficient, so also our dextro-cerebral "character-forming"
centres-the centres wbich on tbat side of the brain sum up or represent
our highest activities-may retain, in tbeir inferior evolution, tracesof
that savage ancestry which forms the sombre background of the refine-
ments and felicities of clvilised man.
And, furthermore, I suggest tbat while we babitually use our
sinistro-cerebral cOOracter-centres with the same nnconscious choice as
leads us, for instance, to catch at a rope flung at us with our right
hand and not with our left, there a.re nevertheless certain states-
supernormal !IS well as a.bnormal-in which our Ego (whatever that
may be) expresses itself more "readily through the dextro-cerebral
centres, and assumes, therefore, 0. comparatively savage character.
If this be so, much light will be thrown on almost all that class of
Spiritualistic manifestations which OOve bet'.D ascribed to diaholic
agency. Anti-Spiritua1ists and Spiritualists ba\'e combined, I think,
to exaggerate the alarming character of these occasional displays of
waywardness and anger. Anti-Spiritualists have, so to say, tied two
incompatible sticks together to beat the dog with, and have exclaimed,
"It is all your own imagination, and the de"n is at the bottom of it!"
And certain Spiritualists who decorate their strings of sermonising
platitudes with the imagined authorship of Abraham, or Abraham
Lincoln, or Isaac, or Isaac Newton, or Isaac Comnenus, or J &COb, or
Jacob Bohme, according to fa.ncy-as readily as the street-seller labels
his penny ices "pineapple" or "vanilla "-are" strongly inclined, on
Digitized by Google
Karch, 1886.] Jorwllnl q,f Society /01' Pal/Mical Re88a1·cll. 229
the other IJI~nd, to think that if planchette says, "I like to be bad,
and I wish I was worse," the very Prince of Darkness must needs have
dictated the appalling sentiment.
Perhaps beneath these radiant or sombre trappings there may lurk
nothing worse nor better than our own small selves;and these oscillations
may have no greater amplitude than between one and another centre of
our own irregularly-developed brains. And if we are not ashamed of
possessing a digestive system which includes the rudimentary "vermi-
form appendix,"-a motor system which includes the comparatively
defective motor innervation of our left hands,-then surely we need not
be ashamed of possessing an emotional and ideational system which
includes dextro-cerebral elements some twenty generations or so in
arrear of the epoch to which our brain, taken as a whole, entitles us to
belong. For those who believe that our evolution has no assignable
limit, there may even be something pleasing in such a token lUI this of
the rapidity with which we are mounting on the endless way.
This theory of the moral duality of the brain is, of course, still on
its trial. And even if it should be found to be a true theory, and to
cover some part of the facts of automatic writing, that would not prove
that it covered them all. It is for those who deem it insufficient to test
and, if they can, to support their own ,opinion by carefully-made and
candidly-recorded experiments.
The l\leeting then assumed n conversational character.
PROFESSOR BARRETT ON SPIRITUALISM.
Professor Barrett has requested us to reprint the following ex-
tract-I! from lettE'rs written by bim to Light, in reply to an inquiry
made by Mr. Dawson Roge.rs:-
" I do not know that my own attitude of mind towards Spiritualistic
phenomena is of milch intl'rest to anyone, but as Mr. Rogen refen to it I
may 8&y it has not clumged ; on the contrary, wider experience has only
added to the conviction of the mingl8'i causes which are at work in producin~
the phenomena, and tbe mingled feelings with which I regard the whole sub-
ject. Unquestionnbly (If value in certain statesof mental doubtand darkne88,
it must not be forgotten that Spiritualism belongs not to the spiritual but to
the phenomenal order of thinp, and ns such comes within the scope of
scientific inquiry. Doub~le88, its general acceptance, B8 part of ourrecognised
knowledge, will profoundly enlarge and modify our present limited scientific
conceptions, tJlOugh the eXl'lanatior. of its phenomena may then be very
different from tbnt usually entertained by Spiritualists.
But whilst I regard scientific inquiry into these phonomena as wholly
right and necessary, I am bound to any that in my opinion a casual inquiry,
or indiscrimate circles, or even the habit of regular family sc!ances, are not
Digitized by Google
2:30 JOllrlaal qf Soeke!1 lor plJgcMcal &,etlrc". [Kueb,l886.
only likely to be misleading but are open to gmve intellectlL'\l and moral risk.
The intellectual danger is the natural tendency of the human mind to gift
undue importance to occult phenomena, which are apt to lUIIIume a magni-
tude in our minds proportional to the neglector ridicule of the matter by the
world at large. And the moral risk I venture to think Comes in when, 88 is
almost inevitably the cue, we exalt the value of information coming to ua
from unknown agencies, or make it aft"ect the conduet of life, whereas BUch
information may be derived from the automatic action of one'B own mind or,
~t furtheet, from beings whom we cannot control, and whose power and
character we do not know."
" I have no right to Bpeak for the Society for PBychical Reeearch, but I
have not the leut objection to Btate that., eo far ae I am concerned, and eo
far lUI I know the opinion of my friends on the Council of that Society, it is
not true to Buppose there existB amonget ue an attitude of llostility towarde
Spiritualism, or •the habit of Bpeaking of it in termB of depreeiation and
dieparagement.' On the contrary, BOme of UB conBider, and I am one of
that number, that the time hae come when we may wiee1y advance beyond
our preeent poeition, and put on record in our Proue<ii.lIgl1 some of the
evidence on behalf of the pbYBicol phenomena of Spiritualism that baa come
under the pereonal obeervation of credible and careful witneeeee.
Ae for mYBelf, I feel, what I hope in time all lovers of truth will feel,
both reepect and gmtitude to those who amidst much obloquy, ridicule, and
petty persecution, l1&ve dared to avow and to maintain their belief in the
pbenomena of Mesmerism ani Spiritualiem. They have, no doubt, BOme-
times been deceived, and their methods of reeearch were in general far from
what lcience demands; they ha\-e, perhapa, been ignorant of well-known
scientific truthl, and their conclueionB have often been hutyand erroneoua;
but in Ipite uf all thie they have, in my opimon, got hold of certain reDaarlt-
able and valuable facta wholly new to Bcience, and inBtead of being treated
by men ofacience with arrogance and diedain they mould have been welcomed
&1 fellow-workers in the great laboratory of no.turo. Then patiently and
perseveringly 'the dry and clear light of acience' Ihould have been brought
to bear on every lUIIIe~ fact, and tho falBe winnowed out from the true.
That, in fine, ie the aim and object of the Society for PBychical Reeearch.
But if that Society hae endcavuured,and I think toagreatextentsucceufully,
to bring acientific opinion round to examine theae phenomena, itie incumbent
un thole who are believers in Mesmerism and Spiritualiem to exert them&elvell
in order to preeent to Bcientific scrutiny the best evidence they can collect.
It is incorrect to say the Society for Psychica Research will not examine
this or that phenomenon when it is doing all it can to get hold of the evidence,
and when thOl8 who can furnish the evidenco make no effurt h) bring it
before the Society. Let me therefore entreat Bny reader of this letter who
bae any facta to communicate, or any:.suggestionB to offer, to write to the
hon. sec. of the Society, 14, Dcan's-yard, S.W., or to myself, and I can
promiee him the most patient attention.
It is needful, perhapa, to say a word or two to thOle of our friendB who
are complaining of the slow progrell of the Society for Psychical Reacarch;
I think Mr. Rogers' letter redect. that feoling. Sucb friends are, perhaps,
bardly aware of the extremely Ilow rate of progre8B involved in every aocure
,
Digitized by Google
March, 1886.] Journal of Societ!l ffW PsycMcal Researc/t. 231
advance in natuml knowledge; exact lCientific inquiry demands the mOlt
laborioua processes, it muat make firm every step it takes in proceeding from
the known to the unknown. And when facts such lUI those under considera-
tion, unrelated to existing knowledge, have to be examined, the progreBB
must be expected to be slower still. I shall feel BBtisfied if in my lifetime I
see 80 much lUI a general acceptance of the phenomena of thought-transferenco.
But I am glad to know the opinion Mr. Rogers quotes is not shared by 80
distinguished and advanced a thinker 88 Mr. A. R. Wallace, who writing to
me recently remarks: •I am not at all dissatisfied with the progress of the
Society's work. TIle energy of MeBBrs. Myers and Gurney is admirable,
and I feel convinced that if they go on much futer they will be claBBed with
.. deluded Spiritualists," and will get no more attention from the literary
public than the Spiritualists themselves.' "
" SPHINX."
The first two numbers, for January and February, 1886, of this
handsome monthly publication, the object of which is the furtherance
of Jl6Ychicnl research, have reached us. They may be obtained, we may
add, at Redway's, 15, York-street, Covent Garden. The magazine is
published at Leipzig, and the editor is Dr. Hiibl»Schleiden, well-known
in Germany as a publicist, and author of "Ethiopien" and other
works which ha.ve had an important induence on German colonisation.
A leading contributor is Baron du Prel, whose interesting work
"Die Philosophie der Mystik" will, we hope, soon appear in an
English tnmslation of Mr. Massey's. A larger part of the contents
of these two numbers consists of literary than of experimental
matter; but the editor is doubtless the best judge as b the means
of attracting a.nd increasing the German public interested in these
discussions. There are various articles on which we should have
been glad to dwell, but lack of space compels us to select one only,
containing an account of experiments which, if confirmed and
repeated, promise to be of high importance.
This is a letter from Herr W. Zenker, of SchOningen (a town be-
tween Magdeburg and Brunswick), detailing certain experiments with
a tilting table, which, if correctly reported, show at least thought-
transference from persons not touching the tahle, 1)robably the attain-
ment through the tilts of facts not known to anyone present, and
pouibly something like identification of the communicating intelligence.
Reduced to their briefest expression the experiments were as
follows:-
I. Frau }[arkworth is said to be communicating. Herr Markworth
takes six photographs from his deceased wife's album and holds them at
gitized by (.oogI
232 Jot,,.,,al qf &Cist'!!lor P,ycAieal Re,en,-cl,. [Marcb, 18SG.
random, not knowing which he holds, nor touching the table, nnder the
table. Two are rightly told, and the experiment is stopped. Why not
prolong itt
II. Herr Markworth, without touching the table, holds a photograph,
which he knows, underneath the table, and asks for the name, "mit
ihrem Vaternamen also Zunamen." He expected the name "Graftau,"
which was his wife's maiden name, for the picture was of Frau Mark-
worth; but " Markworth It was tilted out and defended by the " spirit"
as correct.
III. Frau B. and two children sit at the table. Herr Fr. and Herr
Zenker look on. Table tilts out "Zimmermann It as communicating
spirit. This is the name of a telegraphist, known to Herr Fr. alone.
They ask him to answer by Morse alphabet. No response_ They ex-
plain that a long tilt is to stand for a dash, a short one for a dot. The
table then answers by Morse alphabet questions of which the answers
are known to Herr Fr_ only. None of the persons at the table know
the Morse code. Of this Herr Zenker is quite certain.
Various details show that the answtlrs are not reflections of thoughts
consciously in the minds of persons present. This, however, is not (in
the present writer's view, at least,) conclusive as to the presence of an
intelligence separate from theirs; since it is possible that such mani-
festations may reflect an uncomct0u8 part of our minds in preference to
the conscious stream of thought. The experiment with the }tnknown
photographs (itself possibly suggesting clairvoyance rather than an
extraneous mind) should be varied and repeated as often as possible.
And we should be glad to know more about Herr W. Zenker and his
group. Herr Zenker writes clearly and with moderation, but cannot
Dr. Hiibbe-Schleiden,' or Baron du Pre!, or Professor Sellin gain
personal admittance to the circle, and report his experience' Herr
Zenker MyS that this is the only occasion on which he has got pheno-
mena which exclude thought-transference. He implies that he has
often got phonomena which must be referred to thought-transference.
We beg to assure him that if he has well-attested facts of this kind to
report which exceed the space which Splti.n:r: can give them, they
will be very gratefully received by our Secretary in Dean's-yard. But
when a report is given of a phenomenon occurring in the presence
of several witnesses, it is desirable to have the signatures of all
the witnesses, appended to a record made at the time. If our trO&«&lpr
~lyE will pose her problems with· minute and patient care she may
end-we hope she will-by becoming her own <Edipus.
F. W. IL M.
ElULA.TUl\f.-In the JUUt'll4l for February, p. 204, line 23, for" ringing"
read .. pinging."
Digitized by Google
