{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marinda_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Marinda G NDE 2388","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marinda G NDE 2388  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marinda G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						709  Marinda G NDE  2388  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was admitted on August 10, 2001 for surgery. (Hysterectomy.) The next day, I experienced severe abdominal pains. The gynecologist called the help in of a surgeon on Sunday 12 August. I was sent for various scans/x-rays. By 13th of August I was extremely weak, could hardly even breath. My stomach was so swollen, I felt like it could burst. (I wished for it to happen, as I could not stand the pain any longer). The Tuesday around lunch time, my mom was visiting me in the hospital room. I saw my uncle's face, as if in a dream, but yet awake. I told her he had an orange glow around his face, and looked so good.

The next moment, I saw myself drifting out the hospital, over valleys, (could clearly see the Aloes beneath) then over the beach, the sea and the next moment I was on top of the clouds. The sky was beautiful, clear. The clouds formed a white floor, (same as what you sometimes, on a clear day experience, when you are flying twenty to thirty thousand feet high). Then I saw a sunray, which looked similar to a spotlight moving from far over the clouds in a circular motion closer to me. I tried to touch it as it got closer to me, but it pulled away. In the right-hand corner of my scope of view, I was aware of two shadows. (Similar to when you are in a movie house, and you see the black silhouettes of the heads of the people sitting in front.) I was not scared of them, but they did make me feel uncomfortable. I asked God to please protect me from them. I saw the sunray, and wanted to dive into it. I heard something similar to a choir of female voices, telling me/singing to me, that it is not my time yet. I did not want to listen to them.

The sunray came past me again, and I dove underneath it...

There are absolutely no words in ANY language that can describe the utter sense of peace/joy/contentment/happiness that I had experienced. I remember thinking, how could I not have realized how heavy my body was on earth? I remember comparing my body's weight to a five ton elephant! - How light I felt! How fast I could move! I could think of myself/see myself as a ball of energy and moving so fast!

The feeling of peace could be at best described as follows: Try and think of THE MOST relaxed and calm state in which you have EVER been! I compare it to being totally alone, with my ears submerged under the water in a bath. There is no sound - you're completely relaxed - well this comparison to that of the peaceful experience I encountered could be compared to still sticking your head in a bee hive!

I asked God, that if it was truly not my time yet, to please tell me what my purpose on earth was - then I woke up in my hospital bed - for something that felt like hours, my mom told me I was just 'gone' for about two minutes! I woke up smiling telling her, I know what my purpose on earth was! To find joy and spread joy! Sounds so simple. A short while later they pushed me back to theater (my intestine was perforated, during the initial hysterectomy and the leak caused my body to be slowly poisoned). Psalm Twenty-three repeated in my mind over and over.

Approximately two months later:

Although I knew my purpose on earth now, I could not imagine that it was so simple. In any case, I was a kind of happy/joyful person, so what? Then my husband, who have NEVER in his life, attended any Christian courses etc. decided one Monday night, to join a friend of ours, (whom we had not seen in close to over a year) on a disciples course. He attended this on the Thursday and came home telling me about the part in the New Testament, where the rich man, who had everything, asked Jesus what he could do to inherit eternal life. Jesus told him give up everything he had, and the man could not do that. Somewhere in between all of this, my husband uttered the following words. And God said, find Joy in me, and spread it! I was stunned! This was God speaking to me so directly! I knew the joy I thought I had to spread, was not the same I had in mind! I was shocked, scared as I knew this meant, I had to basically stop my life I was currently leading, move back in to my 'Father's house' and have HIM in the center of my life. Today, four years later, I am FAR from where I would like to be/should be, still living a 'normal' life, still getting drawn into the everyday life issues, but every now and again, I realize, that I have to pull out, not to become to part of the daily life issues, and remember - God is out there!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 14 August 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could rationalize so much faster, take in so much more. Think of so many things, all at the same time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The sunray came passed me again, and I dove underneath it. The experience of the directly here after.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Degree of Solidness. I felt (if I can compare the feeling to something) like a ball of energy that moved fast.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not a tunnel, but the sunray!  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I did not see anyone, but heard their voices.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The sunray.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Passing over the valleys, clearly seeing the  plant growth beneath me, the beach, the ocean and being ontop of the clouds  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       PEACE, Happiness, contentment - we do not have words to truly describe the emotions!  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This happened afterwards, not during. I woke up in my hospital bed, repeating the same words over and over - my purpose on earth is to find joy and spread joy.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am trying to teach my family to live closer to God. I am a lot more aware that he truly exists, and that he assists me in everyday matters.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Just heard about it on TV etc. Was not sure if I could believe it or not. Same as the question of 'Are there Aliens'??? Who knows???? You don't believe until you see.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Four years later, it is still has real to me as ever. I remember this experience, much better than I remember things that have happened during that year!  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing has changed. It is as if something have happened, you experienced it, and carry on with your life. Can't change the past, what happened, happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marinda_g_nde.html