{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marion_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Marion NDE-like Experience 21098","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marion NDE-like Experience 21098  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marion NDE-like Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-like  						752.5  Marion NDE-like Experience  21098  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My best friend had discussed suicide with me on several occasions. We had many arguments over this. I believed that someday he would take his life. We also discussed communicating with one another afterwards. We both knew if it was possible to do so, we could. He knew I believed in progressive reincarnation, the power of prayer, and my faith in ‘Oneness’. We made it simple. I was to ask if he was ‘OK’ and if we communicated to never call on him again because he did not want reminders of ‘Living’.


After his funeral and all guests were gone, I sat on my sofa (about 3 or 4 pm) and shut my eyes.


It was very bright in my living room so I covered my eyes with the palms of my hands. I went in search of any traces, visions, or anything to let me know I was on the path. At first, I saw some illusions of dark gray beings and had the feeling they were trying to stop me or get in my way. Finally, I said aloud to get out of my way. Instantly they would vanish only to come back. I went through that about three times. Then, I was seeing my hedges and yard as if I was floating and looking down at them. It seemed I was about five feet above ground. I seemed to hover over my yard and then my house. I was fully awake. I even laughed aloud because I knew I was on my way. The earth seemed to be a rust color. I saw large city freeway system with overpasses and all the exits and roads. I saw cars and tractor trailers. They looked like matchbox size. Traffic was moving and very busy like after work. Then I looked up and was being propelled. It was first gray then very dark. I was in a tunnel with motion. It seemed the tunnel had grooves and moving very fast around me as I was going higher.


After a while, I saw bluish white light far off in the distance. It seemed to be one light. The closer I got to the light; I realized it was many lights. I was not scared and wanted to keep moving towards them. I felt very comforted. I also had the feeling of being guided. In the darkness with all the lights, I saw another single light form in the far off distance.  Instantly, I had the feeling this was the light I was searching for. I got closer and then I stopped. I said, ‘Wayne' and watched the light move slowly towards me. I said ‘is that you Wayne?’ The Light seemed to open up a little (like a star) and a ray of Light came out of both sides. Again, I asked if it was Wayne and told him who I was. The Light opened so bright and out the sides, I knew without a doubt, I was in the presence of my friend. I asked the question we had decided on. Are you ok and the Light flooded all around me. Light was all I saw and felt. I was so excited to be there. I was selfish and asked again. Are you Ok? The same thing happened. Light. After a couple of seconds, the Light seemed to start moving away from me. I yelled, ‘Wayne, I love you! Teasingly I said ‘show me again’ and laughed like we did so many times with one another. All of a sudden (as his Light moved away), there were millions of lights opening up and out the sides that the universe looked like a fireworks show. I knew I had to leave him. I was so blessed to have been there. I was in the light.


My return was quick. I felt very special. I was different in some ways because of it. I felt relief for my friend because he was finally at peace. I felt lighter and happier. I was awake and never had been to sleep. It felt quick but the clock showed forty minutes had passed.


I never called on him again. One night, right after laying down, I saw those shadow-looking things again. I laughed aloud and told them to go away. Just like before, they scattered. When they did, I was bathed in a million twinkling lights. It was brief. I knew Wayne had come to say goodbye to me.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    6-21-2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     best friend committed suicide   grief over losing friend

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was wide awake and very alert the whole time.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   More time had gone by than I thought.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard whooshing sounds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Saw many Lights but also saw One Light. I knew that all Lights were one.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was more in tune with my senses. I realized I had a sixth sense. Intuition. And to trust it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happy, love, relief, loved, pure joy, and proud.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had a sense of knowing. I know without a doubt that my intuition is keen.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My purpose was to check on my friend.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe that attitude plays a larger role in my life now. Health is better and the only explanation is my attitude.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It’s only hard to describe how beautiful the lights were.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel or hear subtle suggestions. I want to call it intuition, but I’m not sure. I was planning a trip with my Mother and Sister. One day I was sitting on my porch just watching the leaves blow across the street when I said aloud ‘Ok, I won't go’. I went in, called my Sister, and said I am not going. I told her my experience and she said ‘that's good enough for me.’ My mom said the same. I pay closer attention to the ‘feeling’ It seems to feel like a very slight nudge.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was everything about my experience. Knowing my friend was at peace. There was not a worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only to a select few. Not sure how or if they were influenced. The reaction was ok. The few that were told, know me and that I believed it to be true.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Nothing seemed to surprise me during the experience. That surprised me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would have liked a place to explain religious background other than the three choices given. I may not understand the three choices, but none seemed to describe me. I think if I had a place to describe myself, my answers would have had more meaning.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marion_ndelike.html