{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marina_p_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Marina P NDE-Like Experience 8059","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marina P NDE-Like Experience 8059  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marina P NDE-Like Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like Experience  			4193 Marina P NDE-Like Experience 8059  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a yoga vacation. The people offering the vacation package had invited a Colombian woman.  She told us that she had met a Native American man who had discovered a way to experience 'the other side' of life. She told us that you bring your body to a state of syncope or pre-death and then she brings you back. She told us that this experience was going to rid us of fear of death because we were going to be able to compare life to what was on the other side.

(NDERF Comment:  We don't recommend this because it sounds dangerous and it is not based on solid research.  Nobody can predict who will have an NDE.  Only about 5-15% of people who die and are resuscitated have an NDE)

I signed up for the experience because it didn't involve swallowing or inhaling any type of substance that would make me lose control of my mind.  I have never taken any drugs, hallucinogens, or anything of that type.  I also signed up for it because I had a deep fear of death and found it hard to believe that there would be anything after death.  I felt this way in spite of my always feeling that there had to be something that would explain where we are from or what we are; something that would continue after death, although it seemed impossible to be able to prove it. From when I was a child it was a subject I had a fascination for, because I always had great existential doubts about the Universe, humanity and death. Therefore, when these people explained to me how simple the exercise was, I decided to sign up for it.  I am an engineer and from the point of view of my rational mind, I never believed in anything supernatural because there wasn't a rational and provable explanation. 
 
 The ritual consisted of making a series of very simple movements while at the same time taking some breaths.  It was not in any way like hyperventilating or hypoxia.  It was so simple, that I signed up thinking I would never get to the other side.  I was more curious to see how my other companions would do in the experience. The woman told us that it wasn´t easy for anybody to get to the other side, especially if you were a very rational person or you were afraid of the experience. I was convinced that it would never work with me but I did it anyway. 
 
 The first girl who began the exercise didn't get anywhere at all.  This made me all the more convinced that I would never get anywhere either.  I began the exercise in an untroubled way, and with hope that it would be over soon. Moreover, this was how my experience began.  It still hurts to tell my experience because my strong sense of rationality has problems with it and because I continue believing that people could think I was crazy or something. 
 
 All of a sudden, I felt like I had been fired upwards, like a rocket at great speed.  I remember the sound, like a combined type of beep, hum, and vibration all at once. I saw the brilliant light at the bottom.  At first, the light was white, and then it turned into several colours, like a rainbow.  I heard musical notes that accompanied me.  Then I was going into a space where everything around me was hyperactive, mega, ultra-real. I also find it hard to describe the sensation of Extreme Reality that I felt. It was very difficult to describe because that kind of reality doesn´t exist in this world. In fact, this world that all we know is like a joke or like something made of plastic compared to the new world where I´ve just arrived. You could feel a very huge ecstasy of love, something indescribable and that you never have experienced in your life. 
 
 I felt a sensation of abundance and plenty.  I didn't need anything, nor did I lack anything around me.  I was in a state of perfection, feeling perfectly safe and confident.  I was not frightened of anything.  I did not feel fear of sickness or that I might be wrong.  I felt more like 'Myself' than ever.  I felt an empowerment of myself.  Yet, I felt neither inferior nor superior to anyone or anything around me.  Everyone was a part of existence, including myself.  This made me feel that I had the right to live, and that my actions were noble and benevolent to everyone around me.  I felt the safety that nothing bad was going to happen to me.  I felt as if this place was my own true home, because I had the sensation of being home, safe, protected, and welcomed.  I felt liberty because I didn't feel like a slave who was indebted to anyone or anything.  I felt oneness because I was part of everything that surrounded me, and everything in its own way was part of me.  I had the sensation of continuity or of belonging to this life.  There was a feeling of creation or of consciousness because everything that I imagined or thought about took form instantly before me.  This included people who were able to communicate with me without needing to speak.  I only had to create the words in my mind and the person would hear it and vice versa, like telepathic communication.  I felt peace and tranquility like inner and outer peace, peace, peace and more peace.  There was complete serenity wrapped in a sense of timelessness or eternity.  I had the sensation of living there all my life, as if I had always been there.  In fact, I had no memory at that moment of the identity I now have.  I didn't remember anything from my current life, including my name, age, or the fact that I live on a planet called Earth.  I had no memory of what it is to be a human or about anything that comes with it like eating, sleeping, or travelling.  I felt love and ecstasy.  This is the hardest part for me to talk about because trying to explain this sensation with only words degrades the experience.  It is like the physical sensation that would be to feeling an orgasm multiplied by 10 times, and continued throughout time without limits, and in which the emotional feeling would be like Universal Compassionate Love, gratitude, and union.  It would be like not wanting anything to change, like it was emanating without being able to stop this 'Love', I also had the sensation of living through a thousand experiences or adventures, much activity, and very sumptuous visual images with a large amount of detail, very colorful, and coming one after another, without end.  I don't remember meeting any of my deceased relatives.  Although, the last image that I have is looking at a woman who was sitting down on a type of throne.  She looked like my mother, but I didn't associate this person as 'my mother' from earth.  At my side, were two very small children of ages 2 to 3 years old whose physical aspects were like that of my brothers here on Earth.  But again, I never associated them with my current brothers.  I did feel they were my 'family' over there. 
 
 The faces of these three beings were indescribable.  They were radiating Extreme Happiness, Infinite Love, and Empowerment of themselves.  My mother was extremely pretty; more so than I had ever seen and much more than any human being in this life could ever be. I don't remember ever in my life having seen a face so full of Peace and Love. The more I looked at her, the more Love I felt. It was so hypnotic that I couldn't stop looking at her. 
 
 
 Suddenly, that picture of my family and my whole life began to move rapidly away.  I felt as if I were trying desperately to cling to the life that I considered Real.  I tried to return to where I was, but there was something that was stopping me.  I started to feel very frightened because I didn't understand anything that was happening.  I felt wrenching, emotional pain as if something was pulled from my body.  I felt as if I were moving at tremendous speed through a dense darkness, and with the feeling that every moment my space was narrowing. 
 
 Then I began to hear a voice saying to me 'Come back...Come back...' I knew that I should go to a place that I felt I knew, but at that moment, I wasn't able to remember where that was.  It was like having something 'on the tip of my tongue' but not being able to remember what it was.  I remained frightened and at the same time asked myself, 'Come back?... Come back?... To where? Where do I have to return?  Where are they taking me? '  I tried to find a possible home in my mind to go to, but I couldn't find any.  So I began to panic and felt like I would go crazy or lose consciousness.   At that moment, I heard my inner voice saying to me, 'Calm down, come back, you have to come back.'  Yet I kept asking myself, 'Where?' My inner voice said to me, 'Don't be afraid, trust me, come back...' I started to relax and feel more confident.  I kept going forward and towards nowhere, but I trusted the voice and gave into it. I ended up going with no resistance. 
 
 At that moment, I felt I was entering a new space.  The first thing I felt was an enormous dense emotion that was like dirt.  I could feel emotions not available in the world I´ve just left.  Some emotions were similar to those I experienced there on the other world, like peace, love, fullness, and freedom.  I say they were something similar because in this new place, I couldn't perceive things in the same way.  It was as if these emotions were like a cheap substitute of the ones that I felt on the other side.  They carried inevitably their own opposite emotions.  I felt as if I had been thrown against a wall, or that I had dropped a glass of icy water full of scarcity, impurity, retardation, imperfection, discouragement, limitation, imposition, stupefaction, anesthesia, loveless-ness, instability, materialism, disorder, and conflict. One after another, these emotions appeared to me, in my new mental panorama, at a dizzying speed.  I felt within me, as if these emotions were to make me feel disgruntled, that everything was unavoidable, and they form part of this new world where I had arrived. 
 
 I felt as if I had fit into a small, narrow and dense container that it was my physical body.  I felt a tremendous physical heaviness and the sensation that my body weighed tons. I felt compressed, especially in my head.  I believed that if it continued this way my head was going to explode. It hurt very much and I felt a great pressure.  I began to realize, that something I couldn't control, had started to erase the memories of the Earth that I had come from and of my life. I really didn't want this to happen.  I tried to grab my memories by force to keep recording them into memory.  I managed to keep the sensations, emotions, and knowledge. 
 
 I felt as if all this was disappearing towards my left and at the same time, it was erasing that which I considered my life.  I saw that on the other side of my head, to the right, there were new images forming, or more precisely, it was new knowledge. I felt like if something were loading me up a series of programs containing instructions on how to manage myself in this new world with its physical laws.  This was to make up for my lack of knowledge and so I could learn how to live in this new receptacle that contained me. At this moment, I managed to open my eyes. The first thing I saw was I falling forward and that I had bitten my tongue.  I still didn't know who I was or where I was. I just saw the ground, and something I didn't recognize, or know what it was for: it was my hand.  I was bewildered and a bit frightened.  I kept asking myself, 'Where was I? What was all this? Was this new world real?'  Because what I felt was as if I had been put into a dream, and now everything I saw was like a toy, a joke, the memory was fuzzy or false.  In the background, I heard a repetitive voice of a woman saying, 'Come back... Come back...'  I felt a blow towards my back, all along my spine. Then I felt a light bulb over my head, and I began to fit in all the new data that had come to me.  I knew where I was and in a cabin that belonged to the Colombian woman. Oh! Surprise! Suddenly I remembered that we were doing a ritual to experience death.  I was impressed because I never believed at any moment that I was going to have this experience.  I couldn't speak.  Everything was dense. I couldn't communicate as I had earlier with just thought.  Everything had become heavy and difficult, as opposed to how easy it had been over there! 
 
 I started to feel a bit sad and also felt a yearning.  I didn't want to be in this new world.  I wanted to go back to that other one, where everything there was more real and I was more myself than ever. I was processing everything I had been through, not knowing for how long I had been out.  I was pondering questions such as 'What happened?' 'What scientific explanation could I give them?' 'Had all of it been a hallucination?'   I concluded, 'No.' This had been more real than everything that was happening now.  The world I am in now was the dream, the other world from that which I came from, was the Reality. I didn't feel of this world, I felt more from the other.  It was because there I had felt a belonging because of the unity I felt. 
 
 Later, I verified what had happened to me while I was away. I was able to assist in the journey of the next companion that did the ritual. The physical effect that happened to him was as easy as when he stopped doing the movements of the ritual his body fell down like lead, completely inert like he had been a sack of potatoes or like a person who dies of sudden death. The Colombian woman brought him back by hitting his back repeating, 'Come back... Come back... Come back...' The journey didn't last more than 5-7 seconds of our time, but the experience for me was as if I had lived thousands of years or eternity. 
 
 I remember that I spent days in a state of shock.  I didn't dare tell anyone about the experience because, although I was in a group of open-minded people, I felt that they didn´t believe me at all, some of them thought that it had been a sort of hallucination or similar to that.  But for me, it wasn't in any moment a hallucination or vision.  It was very real, more real than the life that we know now. 
 
 My rational mind tried to look for some sort of explanation as to where I had been.  I tried to convince myself that not all that had happened to me could not be true. How had all this been possible? But I couldn´t help but to answer me honestly that the experience had been real or to put it more clearly - more than Real. 
 
 It was hard to eat again or to do human things now that everything felt more tricky and dense.  I still was wondering 'What were we all doing here?' or 'Why had we come here?' I felt helplessness because I really wanted to tell aloud my story to all of humanity. I felt that it was an experience that had to prove to people, once in their lives, so we could overcome what actually real life is, and what is true love.  Everyone should experience this in order to overcome fear of death and above all so that we overcome the 'craziness' of suffering, fighting, fear of living life as we really would love to live, and without feeling the need to please others. 
 


But my rational mind wouldn't let me tell anyone. If anyone else had told me this story a year earlier, I would have thought they were crazy and that it had only been a vision and a product of their own imagination. So it was that little by little this experience was being forgotten, in spite of the fact that daily I was experiencing strange phenomena in the form of supernatural experiences.  I had very vivid dreams, many premonitions, some lucid where I knew that I was dreaming.  I had some dreams of other people, I was in them, and then, later, talking to the other people confirmed that effectively they had been dreaming of what I had told them.  I have sensations of leaving my body, or feeling out of my body while I was going to sleep or while I meditate.  I have numerous synchronicities, or signs that had revealed about everything that had been happening in my life.  Detail by detail, I was shown a reason much greater than simple coincidence. Also, I began to be able to feel peoples' inner emotions and feelings without being shown them physically. 
 
 I had an episode of feeling or seeing presences of people who were no longer in this world.  Up to nine months later, my father died from a serious illness and his death was surrounded by supernatural events.  When he'd spent hours under sedation, and my family was talking in another part of the building, I heard a voice saying to me to go to the bed because my father was passing away soon.  At first, I was surprised, thinking it was a product of my imagination.  But the voice had been very clear.  I approached the bed because I didn't have anything to lose and, at the moment I gripped my father´s hand, I could see that he stayed alive and I thought that I've just heard only an imaginary voice.  But in the corner of my eye, I saw that out of his head had come a type of scroll of white smoke with a small brilliant ball in the center.  I looked very quickly, to see what it was that I had just seen.  I couldn't see anything and started to think that it had been a product of my imagination again.  At that moment, I looked at my father´s face and he was breathing the last breath of his life. I also remember that on the day of his funeral, during the night I felt a presence in my house.  I identified it as him and it came up to me to give me a kiss.  I was filled with peace, and felt an indescribable sensation of well-being.  I never told anyone in my family for fear of them thinking I was crazy or something similar. 
 
 Three months later, my mother and my little brother told me of similar experiences like my visit from father.  They were frightened because they didn't believe in anything like this.  I started to open up to tell them what I had seen on the day he died and about my NDE that I had had the previous year.  They thanked me for telling them all this because they felt less pain and greater peace at the going of my father. Up to the death of my father, I never brought back the memory of the experience that I had on the yoga vacation.  I started to listen to talks on NDEs.  I didn't know what it was because I had never heard of one except the typical concept of which someone in an operating room having seen the famous tunnel with the white light, but nothing more.  I began reading books on NDEs and I really liked it.  There were many experiences of very similar things to those, which I had felt in my experience. I felt relieved to think that I wasn't crazy and that my experience had been truly Real. More people in the world were able to reach an understanding of how I felt after my NDE. I remember that it gave me goose bumps, every time that I read something else that reminded me of my experience or made me cry.  I remembered with total recall and clarity the experience in spite of the passing of time. 
 
 So thank you for creating this space, it is the first time that I have dared to tell about the NDE with this much detail and above all with the peace of knowing that I won't be judged as crazy or having a vivid imagination, or being inventive.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/04/2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Ritual indio americano.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   The ritual that produced the NDE caused the body of the person a type of syncope or pre-death. The woman that carried out the ritual would resuscitate you very rapidly and nothing more, to go into this state would be dangerous if you remained in it for a long time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I only managed to hear 'Come backâ€¦come back...' from someone else who was saying it to me as I entered my body again.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Different from the NDE, in the normal daily feeling as if my brain, or my consciousness had a candle, a buzzing, something that stopped me from seeing, and experiencing with total clarity, freshness and realism, of life. As if that, which we are now going through (that which we call reality) is a dream, a film, or a cheap imitation, of that which we experience in the NDE. Coming back from the NDE, what I felt was that the life we now have is like when we dream, like when we accede a memory and as if it lacks substance and realism. As if, it was some sort of joke.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the experience itself, which was extremely real and especially all of the 'come back...!' At no time did I have a blackout nor anything similar, I was conscious throughout all the time, until I returned.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Although the NDE only could have lasted for some seconds in this world, for me it was as if I had been thousands of years over there, because of the several experiences and the sensation of always having been there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed to have much more vivid colors, clarity, was more real and vision was greater (wider) with a better angle of vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear sounds that would have normally not been perceived, in daily life. Those sounds caught my attention, more than, if I had heard them in normal life, it was as if I was more conscious of everything that happened, and I could register and process it because of my greater mental capacity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When I went, what I remember is that as I travelled at such speed towards the light everything seemed like a tunnel's visual effect, but I didn't see a tunnel as such. On returning the sensation of the tunnel was greater, but it wasn't a tunnel, as we know it in our daily life, if not better described as an energetic tunnel without a concrete physical form that in which I went forward, I could feel it as it changed my energy and my feelings / knowledge.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my mother, and my two brothers, (my father wasn't there) although on seeing them, I felt they were my family in spite of not remembering, during the NDE, my current life including my family.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like a rainbow, it reminds me of the rainbow that you can see when it's raining, but larger as if it took up the whole screen.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I don't remember the details because they erased it from me on returning, but I still have the feeling of being in a strangely familiar but supernatural world.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I have described them better in the experience, but in a less refined way, one could say, Love, Ecstasy, Unity, Perfection, Safety, Belonging, Happiness, Peace, Pleasure...

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It was a sensation as if I already knew everything that was about to appear before my eyes, and as if at some moment, I felt that I would like to know anything else, it simply came to me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     The image of my family that I saw was one of a room that I didn't recognize, and my mother sat on a type of sofa, or throne that I have never seen before, nor do I remember it. From the ages of my brothers, I deduce that it was an event in my past, but I have no memory of this image that happened in my real life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   Me crié en una familia Cristiana- Católica y de pequeña creía en el Dios Crsitiano, pero desde los 8-9 años dejé de creer en él, no me cuadraba lo que me contaban y empecé a creer que existía algo divino que pudiera explicar la razón de qué es el Ser humano pero no creo en una figura como un dios, siento que hay algo que no somos capaces de explicar o demostrar que nos ha creado y que podemos vivenciar después de morir.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I feel that which we do here in this world has some meaning, although I still don't know exactly what it is. Due to this, I am more careful, or I have more conscience in what I say and do to others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Ahora después de la 'demostración' que me ha dado la vida creo 100% que existe algo superior intangible e infinito, pero no siento que haya algo superior como un dios, siento que nosotros somos eso que llamamos Dios

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Before the experience, I have commented that I didn't believe that life apart from the body existed; neither did I believe that you could experience this without dying. I was able to believe that there exists something so perfect, without duality.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I panicked at dying because I didn't believe in an afterlife and I now see death as a change of state or of dimension, but it is not the end, and life definitely carries on after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The only visual image I remember is the last and 'my family' it seemed supernatural to me, it was like if they were themselves, but with the appearance of some mystical person, someone who is not of this world.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     No era un conocimiento específico, pero sí tenía la certeza, como he comentado en una pregunta anterior, de que ese sitio donde estaba era mi Hogar y yo había estado antes allí.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     It wasn't anything specific, but I had the certainty that Everything was united, or at least I didn't feel as if they weren't part of me.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Again, it isn't specific but it stayed clear that my life over there was much easier than that here, there were no challenges, or punishments, and everything was perfect.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt that life continues after death because in that moment my body wasn't 'alive' in real life and the sensation that the experience gave me, was to know the place to which I had been going all my Life, as if I was returning to my home or something similar.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love was that which was the most clearly felt thing over there. But at the same time, the most difficult to explain with words from here.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I started to have strange occurrences or unexplainable things, dreams, premonitions meditations, journeys out of my body (OBEs)â€¦

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I see Life and people in a different way. I feel more that they are, I feel that if I hurt them, it is like hurting me, because I feel that we are all equal in this world, we are the same. I feel more respect and understanding towards others and their lives so much, whatever they are.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Ah! Yes, very difficult, in fact I continue thinking it has been very difficult to try and put the NDE into words, I feel that no words exist sufficiently to describe it, so someone that has never experienced it could understand it. Above all, because there are sensations, or actions or objects, that don't exist in this life.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    The sensation of clarity, detail and reality were extreme. There are no words to describe it. But on returning to normal life, they didn't see things the same and it was hard to be remember them from the real experience in itself.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see people that are not from this dimension, I have premonitory dreams, and some are so vivid, I go out of my body while sleeping, or meditating, and enter a giant black different space, where things are not perceived as they are here. There, one doesn't perceive through the senses, because there is no sensation of having a body. One is so much more lucid, and conscious, that in daily life, the vibration is different, less dense, more pleasant, but every time I leave and enter there, the sensation of vertigo by separating myself from my body, stops me from continuing with the experience and I return to the normal vibrational state, to the body. I will continue to research this.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most significant thing for me was the return; it is the best memory, above all. I was surprised in not remembering any of my life here in spite of having seen my family. Another thing that surprised me was that something brought me back, it was involuntary, at first and the feeling was that something beyond my control wiped the visual memory of what I had seen there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time that I shared it completely was some days afterwards with the people with which I had carried out the ritual, but even those that got an NDE couldn't remember anything, they were a complete blank, they just remembered having lost consciousness, also they seemed to disbelieve me or seemed to be astonished at the experience. I never talked about it again, until months later, with a group of people that meditated and practiced yoga. Some people that appeared to realize that the height of the experience, and were pleased that I told them and it had helped a lot to hear this, others simply looked at me as if I had made up all of it. Months after the death of my father, I told the story to my family, and although they listened, they didn't seem surprised or upset by anything, just never replying to anything, and not showing any curiosity to know anything else on the subject.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In the passing of the following days, it seemed that it was still more real. It's difficult even impossible to explain it with words, because it was much more than real, it was Hyper-real!!! I just want to say that today (16 months have gone by since the experience) I carry on remembering it with total clarity, more than any other thing that ever happened to me in my life; and I continue remembering the sensation of extreme hyper-reality that you can't explain with words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can only say that today (16 months have gone since the experience) I carry on remembering it with total clarity, more than any other thing that ever happened to me in life; and I continue remembering the sensation of extreme hyper-reality that you can't explain with words.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had moments of extreme sensitivity towards the World, and in sporadic moments, I have felt the sensation of enormous Union with everything, understanding and infinite love for life. I call it moments of connection, and when they happen, they remind me of the NDE, although I feel that I can't achieve the same level as I had in the experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing comes to mind right now. I believe I have covered everything.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Right now, I don't know. It seems quite complete.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marina_p_ndelike.html