{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mario_nde.html","mytitle":"Mario NDE 7966","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mario NDE 7966  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mario NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4146 Mario NDE 7966  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In Africa I have been stung by mosquitoes getting marsh fevers, naturally it was the 'plasmodium falciparum' the most dangerous of them all and the one with the highest morbidity. Since I did not get the usual symptoms of marsh fevers like high temperature, etc. my physician excluded the infection without visiting me. After a week when I was back home, my wife found me unconscious on the bed, and called the emergency number.  When the doctor arrived he diagnosed my heart stopped and after an injection in my sternum they carried me to the hospital where the neurologist evaluated me as a closed case.  But a doctor, who was my friend, insisted for therapies and after a few days in a coma and a slow recovery that lasted over 3 months, I was back home. 

I don't know when I lived the experience of my travel in this indescribable and wonderful LIGHT, where I have been enveloped with much love and peace finding myself in a place where so much joy could be breathed facing huge and wonderful flowers with intoxicating perfumes. There in that place, I met my parents who passed a few years ago.  Only my mother talked to me saying that it wasn't my hour yet and that I had to go back.  Despite my disappointment, she insisted for my return. I talked also with my nephew who died in 1994 from a street accident when he was 18 years old and he too suggested to me that I had to return too. How I wished I could stay! Yet I came back.  Only after a few days (also because the first 15 days I could neither move, quadriplegic, nor talk for I was intubated), and being afraid of misunderstandings, I told my account to my wife Cristina. My wonderful experience has erased any fear of death for me because when we die something exists afterwards.  But most of all in the afterworld we reunite with our dear ones.  Moreover, my belief gives to me the certainty that God is waiting for us with joy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  22/11/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Allergic Reaction.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I could not understand the passing of minutes; everything was there as it was happening.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The light that was enveloping me was projecting me upward, indescribable light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My parents and my nephew

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This is not an earthly light, inasmuch as even if it had a strong intensity, it did not blind me, rather it was escorting me in my travel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I hoped after death something could exist and not just ‘nothing’, otherwise why bother living? Now I have the certainty that the other side exists.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     See 'Changes'

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Talking with my mother and seeing my father, I am certain that we don't go into nothingness but we reach a place of peace and serenity.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Now I pray more, I attend my church and I joined a few services in my church.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't know whether my children are happy when I say I would have stayed, gladly, in that light.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    This wonderful travel is still useful to me to understand that we need to appreciate the current day and yet to know that when death shall reach you, you will be welcomed in the arms of Jesus and you will hug your loved ones that arrived in the afterlife before you. We must not mourn, but rejoice.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a few months, I met a few younger persons that were interested in my experience. I realized that talking and telling might be useful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that the voice of my mother was so sweet and confident in suggesting to me to go back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is pleasant to remember it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You need not to be afraid of death; if you behaved right, God and your loved ones will certainly hug you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       To spread knowledge of the experiences to help everybody to become better, but most of all to believe the afterlife exists and our life does not vanish with death but you are welcomed in a place of peace, naturally if you behaved well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mario_nde.html