{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marilyn_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Marilyn Y NDE 909","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marilyn Y NDE 909  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marilyn Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						379  Marilyn Y NDE  909  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I think I already said everything. I passed out and emergency medical technicians carried me down from the second floor of my house. During that time, I saw a glorious golden light with a group of people standing there of all shapes and heights. I cannot remember faces but I felt happy and content. The emergency medical technicians were telling me to not tighten my arms so tight but I was unaware at the time. I can remember none of that. The emergency medical technicians put me on the gurney and shook me to wake up. At first, I didn't know where I was, but I felt sadness at waking up. Whenever I try to tell anyone, it's like disbelief to them, but inside, I know what I saw. That is why I'm trying to tell you. Maybe you will believe me. I even drew a picture to remind me. I can't forget what I saw.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    01/20/2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death anaphylactic shock from antibiotic-aveloxAnaphylactic shock, I passed out while emergency medical technicians carried me down the stairs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I totally didn't know where I was when the emergency medical technicians woke me up.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Don't think so.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were just a group of people, different sizes and heights, standing in a group. Some of them would be my relatives but no faces. Nothing communicated.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Golden light all around.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Closer to God.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I can't explain because it was a golden light so bright, with a group of people all sizes. I couldn't see faces or can't remember them. But I felt welcome.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     My husband is laid off from his job (construction) waiting to be called back. I don't know if this is anything, but I told him that morning, God has a reason for everything. Had he not been home, I would have suffocated and died from the allergic reaction.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I think I know something is 'out there' and don't be scared of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I tried to tell everyone close to me. Some just say nothing, and let you talk. Others believe.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Think I've said it all. I felt like I was unconscious for a long time, but my husband said I wasn't.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marilyn_y_nde.html