{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marietta_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Marietta S NDE 21000","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marietta S NDE 21000  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marietta S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						696  Marietta S NDE  21000  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was very young and my brothers and sisters (of which I have seven), all went up into the hayloft to play. They were not supposed to but did anyway. I wanted to go with them but they said I was too little and wouldn't let me go.


They left the door open so they could check on me I guess.  When they were playing, I climbed up the ladder, and then climbed in.


I was standing in front of the door, and of course, it’s in the floor of a hayloft. I started toward them and they started to come and get me. They were fussing at me. So I started to back up, and by the time, they screamed at me to stop, I fell out backwards. I fell on my head and neck, and I've always had trouble with my neck since then. I was not in my body when they got down to me, because I was above them looking down. They thought I was unconscious or dead, but I wasn't. I was just watching them. But, I was ok and didn't get why all the excitement. I was there and safe, and I didn't like them being upset. But it is strange how I felt I still remember that after all these years and with me being so little. You wouldn't think I would. I knew there was someone with me. I felt them holding me, and they loved me even more then my family. The kids ran and got mom and dad. And I got back in my body by that time. I don't really remember anymore. My head hurt then.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1959 maybe

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  'I was backing up and my brother had left the door open. He was trying to catch me, and I went out backward.'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' 'I fell out of a hayloft, in a barn. Onto the cement floor.'I don't really know. They took me to the hospital and were told to keep me awake. I don't think they did anything else.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't feel my body at all. I was in no pain until I was back in it. I felt like an angel. And I have always felt like I was an angel since then, or had a fascination with them.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was awake and alert, and wondering why they were so upset with me, and why was I on the ceiling. But at no time did I feel in danger.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed like just a second or two, but a lot seemed to happen in that time. He told me a lot of things.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember any sounds. No harps or nothing. Sorry.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     Not this time. I didn't get to go anywhere because he told me I had to go back. I didn't want to though. It's so amazing how much I remember now that I'm finally talking about it. I guess I just figure why remember it if I couldn't tell anybody.  They wouldn't believe me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't see them, I felt them. It was just a peaceful, loving feeling. And safe. They were holding me and talking to me, but I didn't look back at them. I just knew who they were. It was Jesus. And he told me he would be telling me things. And he has always shown me things. It’s like déjà vu. But when he shows me things it’s to show me I'm where he wants me to be in my life.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   I didn't see any light until later. Another time.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My feelings were very aware of everything. I was almost giddy I was so happy. And I think my whole life I’ve searched for that feeling again.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I actually felt good, peaceful, and mellow sort of. Like I knew Jesus was there, or somebody who loved me very much. I felt happy, happier then when I was in my body. My body made me feel sluggish, like I couldn't move. But I could move and feel freedom.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Special knowledge. That's what he gave me. To let everybody I met know I love them like they are the most important person in my life. And to always be good and help others and that if I did that he would show me things. And that as long as I wanted him there he would never leave me. And he has always been there. I still feel him even today.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew when people were coming before they got there. And I sense how people were feeling. I sensed when things were going to happen sometimes. You know why I know it’s true, because I still know the feeling of being there. And it’s so vivid.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I didn't want to go. Jesus put me back; he told me I had things to do.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   'I am not your typical, Christian, I really do believe the bible n think it's very simple. Live in peace and love. Put God first, others second, ourselves last. Love them more than ourselves.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Not so much with this one, except always knowing Jesus was with me. But I have with the many experiences I have been through. And he has given me knowledge of the Bible. It just seems so simple I don't get why others have such problems with it.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I never told anyone. I knew they wouldn't believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I just have little things happen all the time. Like he will give me a strong feeling to talk to people sometimes, and if I don't do it sometimes things happen to them and I'm left feeling like maybe I could have prevented it.

Jesus told me to talk to my husband’s aunt one day and I was busy. She even asked me to come in and talk to her that day. But, I was so tired and wanted to go home. I told her I would come over first thing in the morning. The next morning she was dead.

Another time I was at work and he told me to talk to a man at work I didn't even know. We both were on a break outside by ourselves but we didn't know each other. But Jesus kept telling me to talk to him that he sent him to me. I was too embarrassed and didn't. The next day he shot himself in the head. There are more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the experience itself, the feeling the love. The worst part is I can’t hit my head every day to get that back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    If you include laughter. Or disbelief. I tried when I was little and haven't told anybody since then.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Several experiences. One at sixteen, one at twenty one, thirty five, forty six, and forty eight.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      For anybody out there who is depressed, or for whatever you need he is with you too. All you have to do is call out to him and tell him you want him to take over your life. We are spiritual beings. And that feeling I had just very short time when I was a child. And it has inspired my whole life, and my search to get back to it. And I've had it a few other times. Just imagine what he can do for you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      This is a very good site. Thank you for letting me share it with someone, finally.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marietta_s_nde.html