{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4849","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n27_apr_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N27 April 1886","mylang":"de"}
~o. XXVIJ,.-1'OL. IL APRIL,l_
JOURNAL
01' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COK'1'BK'1'I.
li_ K_berllllld ~.. •• ••
lIeeUDc of Oounell •. .• •• .•
AlmOIlll_~ of GeDenJ KeeUDc .. ••
J'urtber Note. on 'h. UIIOOIIIIlIoua Self ••
J(_erIo BapDOJt •. •• •• ••
c- x-t•• 117 ill. LltenrJ Couualtt..
CorrwpoDdnee •• . • . • •• ••
SapplemeDtarJ LllllU7 ca&alope •• ••
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
BBILBY, J. WOOD, Beechworth, Victoria, Australia.
MEMBER.
Pj.Q••
...
..281
•• 2S&
..w
•• 118
•• lMe
•• 26t
•• !63
CABPDTBB, WILLIAII LA-w, B.A., B.Sc., 36, Oraven Park, Harlesden,
London, N.W.
ASSOCIATES.
BROWNE, MRS. WALTER P., Bidston, Alleyn Road, East Dulwich.
London, S.E.
BULLOCK, Mu., Cedars Lodge, Mitcham, Surrey.
EVANS, KIRKHAM, Adelaide, South Australia..
FRASEB, LT.-CoL. ALEXANDER TnOllAS, R.E., Department of Public
Works, Madras Presidency.
GR.L'iT, ARTHUR J., B.A., Carentan House, Underhill Road, Fores«o
Hill, London, S.E.
HOLT, Mu., The Cottage, East Sheen, Mortlake, Surrey.
STuART, MORTON G., East Harptree, near Bristol.
SYJlONs, MIlS JESSIE H., 11, Doughty Street, London, W.C.
TYLDB..", Mu. OSBORNE, Cumberland House, Chilham, near Canter.
bury.
M.EETING OF COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council waa held on the 2nd inst., Professor H.
Sidgwick being in the chair. The following members were also present:
Messrs. A. Calder, Edmund Gurney Richard Hodgson, O. C. MaBSey.
F. W. H. Myers, and F. Podmore.
p
Digitized by Google
234 Journal qf Societ!! for PS!lchical Researcll. [April, 11!86.
The :Minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed a.s
correct.
Ml·. J. 'Vood Beilby, of Beechworth, Austrnlia, was elected an
Honorary Associate.
One new Member and nine ne'v Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were also elected. Two of the latter,
Lieutenant-Colonel Fraser aud Miss Jessie H. SymollS, joined as Life
Associates.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Mrs. Lawson Ford,
a Member of the Society, and also'of Miss M. 'Valkel', an Associate.
The usual cash account for the preceding month was presented, and
the needful accounts p&SSed for payment.
The Council will meet in the afternoon of May the 3rd at 4.30.
ANNOUNCEME~""r OF GENERAL :MEETING.
The next General Meeting of the Society will be held at the Room5
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, S.'Y.,Oll
Monday, the 3rd of May, when Mrs. Sidgwick will read a paper on
"Results of a personal investigation into the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism, with some critical remarks on the evidence for the
genuineness of such phenomena." The chair will be taken at 8.30 p.lIl_
FURTHER NOTES ON THE UNCONSCIOUS SELF.
II.
Before attempting to develop further the speculations with which
these papers are concerned, I must naturally make some allusion to Mr.
Noel's criticism in the Journal for January. I am grateful for
that criticism, and I should be very glad to receive any others which
readers of the Journal may be good enough to send me. Criticism is a
necessity to nascent theories, if they are to struggle into any kind of
valid life; and when complex speculations have been set forth in a brief
and tentative manner, it is specially important to note the ways in which
they are likely to be misunderstood, and the trains of thought through
which the reader's mind is likely to pass in approaching the new problem.,.
Mr. Noel's paper is helpful in this way; and since many of the difficul-
ties which he suggest.s were already in my mind as needing fullet·
discussion, 1 think that I shall best subsen"e our common object,-
the puzzling out of the truth on a very obscure topic,-by continuing
my own course of exposition,-if exposition that can be called which is
little more than a collocation of afTopla, so arranged as to point to possi-
bilities of ultimate solution. In tItu.!! proceeding I shall of course bear
Aprl1, 1886] Journal of 8ocietyfor Pllycllicnl Reset/rei,. 235
carefully in miud Mr. Noel's remarks,-even where, to avoid an a.ir of
continued controversy, I do not explicitly reply to them.*
But first I must briefly notice one or two passages which seem to me
to suggest comments of wider application than to the present controversy
alone. lIT. Noel compares the sentences which I have already extracted
from him to plums snatched by a child from amid lambent fire. In
extracting !" few more of these semi-solid morsels from their vaporous
environment, I will try and select those only which have a kernel which
we may crack with mutual profit.
I. Perhaps the most important of these points is the use which
Hr. Noel has made of the word "intuition,"-which seems to me to
illustrate with singular aptness the danger of which I spoke in my
former paper "of using words as mere metaphysical counters, not as
-definite representations of observed facts;" Mr. Noel (Lig"t, p. 543)
had spoken of "the influence of angels" as "what intuition discerns," and
I had remonstrated against what I thought a somewhat too facile mode
of proving a phenomenon which has eluded ordinary tests. And now
Mr. Noel, after impressively asking me whether I believe that physiology
aplainB perception,-be might have asked me at the same time whether
I believe that the moon is made of green cheese,-goes on to inquire,
"But what makes us admit the existence of a world external to
ourselves 1Why, only common-sense, instinct, that very intuition, about
which lIr. Myers expresses himself so contemptuously." (p. 161.) This
is a hold, a heroic argument. Because I hinted that Mr. Noel's
individual" intuition" that angels were influencing him was not so
good a security as Science might desire, I am accused of scoffing at the
"intuition" which leads all human beings to admit the existence of an
external world! A metaphysician whose personal intuitions are equiva-
lent in certainty to the judicium orMs terra-Mlm,-to the immemorial
agreement of the whole human race, - is indeed an invulnerable
antagonist. I should hardly venture to assail him furlher, were it not
that he proceeds to throw the same regis of infallibility over a class of
persons with whom I may match myself with less presumption. "Now
I argue," continue!, Mr. Noel, "that the same common-sense, intuition,
or instinct, assures the dreamer, or the madman, that he also is in
presence of a world external to himself." I bave often envied the
• In another long letter in Liolat for Fe~ 21th, from Mr. Noel's fertile pen,
he BaYS: ',' I do wish I oould make my argument' (about the Newnbam caae> "more
iDteUigible than, alu I it appear. to be!" I would auure him that I find hie train
of thought q"uite intelligible, and that the onl, reuon why I do not deal with it at
once is that, UUltead of meetmrr his bare auertlon tbat a particular form of coincident
COIIIICiODBDeBII i. tIOt pouible WIth a bare assertion that it ii, I prefer to endeavour to
J.d him and other readers to perceive ita poIIBibility by dwell~ fint on certain
aDalogoua facta, some of which have not as yet, I think, been 8ufficlently coruridered.
In the meantime I may refer the reader to Mr. Massey's able and luminoualetter in
LIqItJ for March 5th, where he supports, on metaphysical ground8, much the same con-
dnaiODB III those to which I have been led by the mere study of recorded - .
Digitized by Gd'ogle
'l36 Journal 'If Socit'iyfor Psychical Re3ta,.ch. [ApriI,I881.
practised metaphysician his POWEll' of wielding the two terms,
"intuition" and "common-sense." There is a son of lofty claim about
"intuition,"-as it were, "Heads I win !"-and then, if there is a
doubt whether heads are going to turn up after all, plain straightforward
,. common-sense" clinches ~he matter with " Tails you lose !" Yet I
have never seen these potent words employed with such Napoleonic
directness as here. I have never yet been peremptorily checked by an
appeal to the dreamer's intuition and the madman's common-sense.
And Mr. Noel does not flinch from the consequences. "To speak," he
says (p. 170), "of a morbid excitement in part of a madman's brain
making him fancy he sees and hears devils, is to pay oneself with
words. The' morbid excitement,' like alcoholic blood-poisoning, Dlay
enah14 him to see and hear them-that is all it can do."
These words are enough to make the stoutest tremble. What with
the common-sense of madmen" holding a fretful realm in awe" ; what
with the" blue devils" actually swarming around us,-unseen only till
we have" enabled" ourselves to discern them by sufficient potations of
brandy,-the "high priori road " seems to have led us into 0. fearsome
world. The "transcendent squib" which, according to Mr. Noel, is still
influencing me, was nothing to this. And I cannot even feel sure that
madmen will exercise their "common-sense" only in summoning up
devils whom I am not "enabled" to see. I have lUet a madman whose
" common-sense" informed him that //.6 was-say the Archangel
Michael-and that I was 0. devil myself. But I must not "paoy
myself with words," or tl)' to get out of this by any talk of "morbid
excitement" in that maniac's brain. I must face the truth, and admit
that there tca8 a devil,-who had got unpleasantly mixed up in some
way with myself. Or may I, in this desperate strait, return to
my original thesis, and hope that we have got into all this trouble
by using the word " intuition" as 0. kind of counter 1 by ignoring the
fact that it means a practical reality when it is the intuition of all
mankind, and a. private opinion when it is the intuition of a single
philosopher, and afrenzied hallucination when it is the intuition of the
maniac howling in his yard '1* I do not want to introduce more novel
words than need be,-and J admit that I am driven to do so oftener than
I could wish; but sooner than call all these three things by the same
na.me, I would invent a new word for each,-were it as long as the title of
II That gigantic dish beginning -yaAfo-
~f7raao-TfI"lXo-and the Lord knolTs what,
You'll find it all in Liddell and in Scott."
• To avoid misapprehension I ought to add that I do not mean to a.scribe the
confUBion to Mr. Noel's use of ttrm8 alone ; rather (as it f!eems to me), the confuaioD
of terms sprilyfB_from a deeplr-Iying confusion in the wa:y in which Mr. Noel's id..alilm
is conceived. This, however, 18 a pure matter of SpecUlatIve opinion. on which it would
be unfitting to enter here. The question of the distinct and accurate use of tn'ml ia &he
only one germane to the present discUllsion.
Digitized by Google
A.pril, 161M.] Journal Qf Sodefyfor P8!JChiCfll RtlJe(lrch. 237
II. The next point is one on which it might seem punctilious to
dwell, had it not indirectly a more than personal application. Mr.
Noel says that he ,. cannot pretend to be a physiological expert of the
same calibre as (bis] friends, the English authors of these psycho-
physiological hypotheses."
Now here Mr. Noel is courteously according to me, amongst others,
a distinction to which I, at any rate, have no right. I take it that an
"expert" is a man who has given such proof of his mastery of a given
subject that his bare opinion, without argument given thereon, carries
appreciable weight. Now I certainly cannot claim this position with
regard either to physiology or to any other science ; and I think it
important that we who are engaged in puzzling over these new problems
should not speak as if ,our researches gave us any rank among the
masters of the accredited sciences. Our shares, if I may so say, are not
yet quoted on the Stock Exchanll6,· though they are beginning to be
dealt in by regular brokers. I have sometimes seen in print the words
"an expert in Spiritual Science,"-and I have hoped that the eyes of a
Philistine reviewer would not encounter that particular page. Nay,
have we not a Theosophical witness, who, matching his acumen with
Madame Blavatsky's--impar congr6811U8 Achilli-described himself as
an expert in conjuring chiefly because he had once seen Pepper's Ghost f
TIl. Mr. Noel has justly pointed out an apparent unfairness in my
allusion to his theory of memory, viz., that our memory of any thing or
person is maintained by the peml&nent influence which the transcendent
reality of that thing or person continues to exercise upon us. This
view should not be represented as dependent on a physiological mis-
understanding ruone. I regret the phrase, which was the result of an
excessive compression of my argument. I must not, I fear, stop to enter
here on any discussion of the theory either from a metaphysical or from
a physiological point of view. But to justify my implied remonstrance
at Mr. Noel's statement that he had "elsewhere shown" that this theory
was true, I ought just to ask whether any metaphysician of eminence
has accepted, or even seriously considered it1and whether it is usual to
speak in so decided a tone about a speculation of one's own which has
not carried cogency to other minds 1
Passing over other points-which might have called for further
insistance in a formal controversy, but may readily be dropped in a
"friendly mit,"-I think that I may now continue my discussion as to
the nature of consciousness. Thus, as I have already implied, shalll
have the best chance of gradually removing the natural misconceptions
to which my brief essays have given rise, and of evolving a somewhat
clearer notion of the relation of the totality of our being to the parts of
it of which we are cognisant at any given time.
In my former paper I began an inquiry into the meaning of the
Digitized by Google
JOIIl'llfll qf Societ!lfor Pl1ycMcal Research. [April, 18811.
words "conscious" and "consciousness" by a brief review of some
cases where a conscious and an unconscious stl'E'.a.m of mentation seem
obviously to co-operate in the service of the same identity. What is cslled
genituJ seemed to illustrate on 0. striking scale a sensation common to
0.11 of us-the inrush into consciousness of an idea which bas already
acquired a degree of force or elaboration such as usually results only
from a perceptible effort of thought.* We compared this with the
sudden invasion of a fixed idea in cases of incipient monomania; the
difference being that in the case of the man of genius the group of cells
which contributes to the orator the brilliant metaphor, to the mathe-
matician the flash of insight into the inter-relation of fonnube, is working
under the orckr8 of the conscious centre, while in the insane case the
group of cells which suggests to the nursery.maid "kill the baby!" is
working independently of the conscious centre-is hypertrophied into &
self-assertion which ill befits its essential incomplet~ness and irration-
ality. In each case we ha.ve a servant who first acts independently and
then reports himself to his master; but in the first case the servanthas
done his duty with unusual skill, in the second case he has (so to say)
got drunk and then thrust himself unbidden into his master's presence.
In each case there is unconscious cerebration, but in neither case is it
c....rried to the point of duplication of consciousness.
Let us now consider the case which comes next in compleldty, the
ordinary phenomena of sleep and dream. I shall discuss these, of
course, very briefly, and only with the object of further analysing our
notioll of consciousness. For here it is that duplication of consciousness
begins, and these experiences of every night present to us suggestive
ana.logies to the possible action of our spirits in a totality of consciousness
to which this waking life may bear somewhat the same relation as is
borne by night's fl84:lting visions to the comparatively permanent per-
ceptions of the day.
But here again I a.m met in limin' by 0. theory to which :}Ir. Noel
obviously attaches much weight.
• I surely need hardly answer at length Mr. Noel's objection that there cannot be
a .. transference of ideas from the unconscious to the conscious mind "because there
can be no unconscious ide.., and because when .. the unconscious brain ~)I1ra, if I may
60 say, a stream more than UBUally nutritious into the conSCIO\18 channel,' to Mr. Noel
.. that can only mean a conscious stream of this character from surrounding intelli-
gences," &c. Now I will keep clear of any illUBtration drawn from gen,itt., for fear of
gett~ entangled with the "influence of angela," "the Divine creati\'e uni\'ersaI
ideaa, and similar disturbing forces; and I will merelr take the caae of a schoolboy
doing a paper in algebra. He puzzles over an equation for some time in v~ Ke
leaves it and answers other <].ueatione; then he returns to it, and suddenly the true way
of solving it "flashes into hiS head." What I mean here is surel,- obvious, and till
fact of its occurrence undeniable; whether we speak of ..ideas .. or • mental processes "
&8 havinll' been thus unconsciously matured is not important. The word "idea" is a
coin whIch has been rubbed in so many pockets since Plato's day that I should not;
have thought that it retained enough sharpneaa of outline to exemJlt it from the aenice
to which I ha\'e put it here.
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] Journal qf Sociei!1 for PS!lckical ~carch. 239
In my former paper I had spoken somewhat summarily of Mr. Noel's
theory that in ordinary dreams "the dream-personages who converse
with the sleepers are verily spirits;" thinking, in fact, that he might
perhaps prefer to drop this particular thesis. But in his new article he
returns to the charge and says, "I sca.rcely see the force of his [my]
caveat that my snggestion about dreams and madmen • is a.
reversion to the crude explanation!: of a pre-scientific age. For if many
dreams ::lore admitted by Mr. Myers and his friends to be due to the
telepathic influence of spirits"-influence of other minds is what we do
say, but let this pass-" I fail to see why it [my knowledge] should
have so much more to say against a sugg~stion that all dreams may
possibly be due to a similar cause." That is to say, because in a few
cases, bafHing to the ordinary theories of dream, we have adduced strong
evidence for the admission of an unrecognised cause, we might as well
extend the action of this cause to CIloSeS where there is no c\·idence for
•
it, a.nd where the ordinary theories will plainly suffice! If I say "S01M
A is B," "I a.m to assert further that" all A is B ; " if I prove that some
men are killed by lightning I may as well admit tha.t all men are killed
by lightning. I speak with diffidence, but my impression is that the
severe logician would treat this as a fallacy.
Nevertheless it is quite true, as }Ir. Noel afterwards re-asserts,
(p. 1iO), that this is not a mere isolated opinion of his own-that his
opinion a.s to the nature of dreams can count numerous and convinced
partisans. I can no longer escape from argument by 8Il.ying that I am
dealing only with the isolated opinion of a single philosopher. And
difficult as, for various reasons, it may be to reach some of the remoter
branches of ~Ir. Noel's school of thought, the nttempt, so far 11.8 it lies
in me, must be made. The Dyaks, for instance, ·on the authority of
Rajah Brooke, are said to believe "that those things which have been
brought vividly before their mind in dreams have actually taken place."
Well! if Borneo enters the Postal Union, the Dyaks sha.ll have an
opportunity of reconsidering this tenet. The Iroquois and Chippewa.
tribes share the same view; but if this paper is translated into the
It-oquois or Chippewa tongues these thinkers must at least admit that
their theory is not admitted everywhere without flomething of protest.
Canon Callaway has collected many Zulu dogmas to a similar effect. I
shall not be sorry that the Zulus should see that some of us are not
cont,mt with passively accepting their destructive criticism on the-
Pentateuch; that we can carry the war of opinion into the very
sanctuary of their own ancient creed.
For, indeed, among the "crude inductions made upon insufficient
data" with which science is disturbing the "old theories" to which
lIr. ~oel frankly clings, I must venture still to maintain the induction
that some "dreams-most dreams-are but the kaleidoscopic rearrange-
240 Jounull Qf &eiet!! .for P,gchical Baearc". [April, 1888.
ment of fragments of past thought and sensation, revived either by a.
partial continuance of activity in the brain itself, or by some organic or
external stimulus; the accompaniment of such cerebral activity by
MlIlMItion remaining, of course, a problem as inexplicable as in waking
life.*
The personages who appear in our ordinary dreams are, in this view,
mere products of our own dramatic faculty; puppets whom we animate
without being aware that it is ourselves who pull their strings. Baron
du Prel in his "Philosophie der MyBtik"-soon, I trust, to appear in a.n
English tranalation of M.r. Maasey's-has describt'd the achievements of
"Dream the Dramatist" with admirable ingenuity and care. We ca.n,
indeed, a.ll of us trace for ourselves the gradual creation of our dream-
personages, sometimes by actual observation, sometimes by obvioU&
inference. Firat, as to actual observation.
No moment of our day, perhaps, is more instructive than the
moment when drowsiness is merging into sleep. Nor a~ I speaking only
of specia.llyfavoured individuals, such as M. Maury, who can count on
definite illuricmB "ypnagogiqua as the prelude to every casual nap, but
of ordinary persona, who will watch with a fair amount of attention the
commmon hypnagogic phenomena. Let us suppose that we are composing
ourselves to sleep; having either engaged a friend (as M. Maury does)
to wake us at intervals of two or three minutes, or having selected
SODle suitable locality (as the Underground Railway), where the frequent
arrest and renewal of motion will answer the same end. A habit,
which can be easily formed,of counting the respirationa during advancing
somnolence, will supply us with a useful measure of time. We will
note the stages as they succeed each other in our brain.
I. First, before we close our eyes, is the period offatigtutl tJttfmtiofi.
We can still "concentrate our minds" on the newspaper, but there is
a concomitant feeling of exhaustion; a lack of resilience, so to say, in
the strata of thought im:aediately subjacent, which warna us that the
brain needs repose.
II. On closing our eyes our situation is not at once improved. We
ha.ve, indeed, checked the focussing effort,-or directed it into a purely
introspective channel. But we thus become a.ware of an importuna.te
crowd offragmentary thoughts and images which dart to and fro through
the head. This is the stage of conscious incoM,-ence. A little attention
* I welcome a If Note" of Mr. Noel's in the Fe~ Journal ..indicating a con-
aiderableap~J:ima.tion of view. He still holda, however, that lOme influence froM
anotherin"'lligence ill ~edto originate ortodetermine aU ourdreams. But if I dream
of a person ill a situation in which he does not seem to himBelf to be, thill .II fni!.11 cone-
apond," Mr. Noel thinks, merely" to a p&IIBing iho~ht of the person himself or to a
forgotten dream of hill." Well! if I dreaIn that • Chm_,philosophercalla on me and
tell8 me that he ill the wiBeat of men, thill If may correspond, no doubt, to the forsotten
dream of a philoaopher in China. Onecould Wish that thl8 question .. to the contento.
and efficacy of the forgotten dre&lJ1ll of unknown IlB1'8OI1!I had been put to the prophet.
Daniel. in the heyday of hill special powen.
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] Journal qf Society for Psychic,,/ Reuorch. 241
shows us that the vividness and persistence of these incoherent thoughts
is proportioned, not to the brain's /remnul, but to its exhaUIJtion. After &>
day's mountain-walking, for instance, these subsidiary ideas will probably
be faint, and transient; but after a day of excitingand anxiOUI business.
they will be distressingly intrusive. In such a case we may sometimes
note an involuntary re-concentration of the mind. Disjointed scraps of
the day's business are whirling about in our field of consciousness, when
suddenly one explosive thought, such as "How foolish of me to make
that promise!" detonates with such vehemence that it opens our eyes~
and perhaps jerks us back into sudden erectness ;-it "rouses us with a.
start." Somewhat similarly, after a mountain-walk which has been
beyond our strength, sleep will be delayed by aches, tinglings, &c.•
consequent on muscular or cutaneous overwol'k, and sometimes th&
Budden cramp of a large muscle will "rouse us with a start" into a.
re-concentration of attention upon that specially exhausted limb. And
we may note also, - as illustrating the pregnant truth that " the
pathological is merely an exaggeration of the physiological,"-that this.
hypnagogic stage of conscious incoherence marks the parting from sana
life of the road where madness lies.
" Hic locus est partis ubi lie via findit in ambaa : •
Hac iter Elysium nobis; at lreva mal(lrum
Exercet p<eDU, et ad inpia Tartara mittit."
The stage which we are traversing on our way to the Elysium of slee!>
is one which, indefinitely prolonged, is madness itself. For this.
incoherence is not rutful " the ideas, though they are no longe~
voluntarily summoned or actually controlled, are still sustaining them-
aelves (so to say) at the expense of the conscious self-still belong to the
same plane of consciousness as waking life. If this state be prolonged
-if sleep be kept off by noise or inward discomfort-these tumultuary
ideas become not lessbut more urgent. We keep retracing, vividlythough
brokenly, some disturbing incident, until at length we perhaps reach a.
state of nervous irritability in which it is almost impossible to remain
still; we are prompted to mutter words, to make gestures, &c. Now
this is as close a likeness of madne88 as ordinary persons will have the
chance of experiencing. Let us make the most of it; let us realise the
incipient diuolution of personality; the anarchy of competing groups
in the absence of a ruler. Let us note the point of nervous degradation
at which it seems difficult to go either back or forwards,-impossible to
merge the confusion into sleep, but hard, too, to regather the scattering
runlets into a single channel of thought. The intensification of this
state would become, I repeat, a form of insanity; the madman, too, feels.
this incoherent invasion of ideas, which he cannot guide or master, and
~he momentary toss or muttering to which we give way is the analogue
of his noisy shouts, his homicidal explosions.
gitized by (.oogI
242 JOII/'nai C!f Sociefy lor plJgcMcal RellMrclt. [April, lJl86.
This state of prolonged and painful wakefulness,-the state of being
too mucb exhausted to aleep,-deserves more attention than it seems
,yet to have received. I should anticipate that a. ma.n thus situated might
often believe himself to be two persons, through some lack of concordant
.action of the two hemispheres. But the only case just of this kind
which I have come across is an account of Sir Charles Dilke's in
(]reater Britain (quoted by Dr. Hughlings Jackson).
.. This evening, after five aleeplelB nights, I felt moat terribly the peculiar
fc.rm ..,f fatigue that we had experienced after six daYB and nights ul)On the
plains. Again the brain seemed divided into two parte, thinking indepen'
dently, and one side putting questions while the otller aUBwered them; but
this time there was also a Bort of half insanity, a not altogether disagreeable
wandering of tlle brain, a replacement of an actual by an imagined ideal
acene."
III. Let us pass on, however, to consider the stage which normally
follows when this conscious incoherence bas lasted, say, from two
to ten minutes. There is a sort of momentary blur; a kind of motion
of translation seems to pass across the conscious field; the clashing
ideas are not at once wholly stilled, but their relat~on to the self
.appears to change; they become tmfatiguing, and as it were unable to
reach 000'. tranquillity. Similarly a boy who is bathing and engaged in
.a splashing.match, may be deafened and blinded by the Bying spray,but
if he ducks his head under water and continues splashing with his
hands, the sound which still reaches him seems something aloof and
undisturbing. Usually we note nothing after the tirst blur; like negligent
observers of an eclipse we suffer the period of occultation to commence
without photographing the pbenomena of entry. But I am supposingtbat
.a friend's kin-l offices arouse us justas our doze deepens; or we may train
our own attention to start into activity at the critical moment, as
~ecorous church-goers learn resolutely to wake themselves during the
$rmon. If this is done, then in favourable cases we observe a very
remarkable thing. We feel that much the same kind of fragmentary
remarks are passing tbrougJi our mind (though fewer of them), but that
they now seem to be cpntripetal instead of centrifuga.l,-they seem to be
borne in upon us from without instead of being generated from within.
Some of these remarks will be merely grotesque-developing them-
selves from a confusion of thought which has just begun in the stage of
-conscious incoherence. I have been playing chess, we will say, and in
the exha.ustion of wakefulness, my mind has begun to represent my
t.riBing plans or projects as tbougb on the cadre of a chess-board,-with
.an irritating sense that I am only a pawn, and can move but oue square
at 0. time. After the kindly blur of drowsiness I hear as it were an
inward voice saying quietly, "One more move, and you will be a queen."
Now here there can hardly be said to be personijication of an inter-
locutor, though tbere is a nascent separation between myself and some
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.J Journal Qf Societ!1 for Pllychkal Rt.1l6"rch. 248
informing voice. But at another time the C&$e will be diffel'8nt. I have
(let us say) been vaguely imagining myself n.s asking 110 friend to dinner
andfancying, th'Jugh hardly dran&atiring, his reply, "Not on Saturday.
I have a standing e~rement." Then comes the blur, and tMn I hear his
<:haracteristicvoice in his well-known ma'lller saying in continuance :
"8lUlday will do, for I can est three dinners on Sundays."
A long argumentcould scarcely leadup to an incident more apparently
paltry than this. Yet I believe that we have here the first, the pregnant
indi~tion of a 'lJif-aeverance which we shall hereafter trace far down
into" the abysmal deeps of personality." Here, for the first time, we
have a fragment of our own mentation presenting itself to U'l n.s a m~
sage from witlwut; we have the rudiment of what seems a second
individuality entering into communication with our own. And note
that there is usually a two-fold change in the dream-voice n.s compared
to the merely i~ned rf!pJies which we put into our friend's mouth
in waking reverie. The dream-voice seems more dramatically real,-
a better simulation of the friend's tone and manner; but the substance
of the message is usually no longer rationa.l. Our unconscious dra-
matising faculty hn.s a thousand unconscious imp1'essions of our friend's
voice and manner to draw on ; but it hn.s not the power of shaping ..
reasonable rema.rk to tit the immediate occasion. And herein also
\Ve sha.ll find that this rudimentary message, this germ of externalisa-
tion, is a significant precursor of deeper secrets in tJle fissiparous multi-
plication of the self.
F. W. H. MYERS.
(To be continued.)
MESMERIC RAPPORT.
The following accounts refer to some experiments in mesmerism
made by Mr. C. Kegan Paul, who states that he hn.s known the
phenomenon of "coDlmunity of taste in the mesmeric sleep" to have
occurred seyeml times in the case of Mr. S.
Account by Mr. C. Kegan Paul.
.:.1lay 27tk, 1884.
I lived at Great Tew, in Oxfordshire, from .March, 1851, to May,
1852. When there the following circumstance occurred, but I am not
able to fix the month, further than to say that I tlrink it wn.s in the late
summer of 1851. [No. I am now conyinced that it wn.s in April,
1852.]
I had been in the ha.bit of mesmerising frequently Mr. Walter
Francis Short, then an undergraduate scholar of New College, who
was, without any single exception, the most "sensitive" .pe!:BOD of
Digitized by Google
244 Jor"."al qf Society /qr PBflMical R~8M"C". [April, t..
either sex I have ever known. He uaually became what is called
clairvoyant, but this always tired him, and I seldom made protracted
experiments in this direction. On several occaaions I found that II.
community of taste was established between us, but only once mad&
any experiment with more than one substance, such as a hiscuit, or
glaas of water.
At Great Tew, with his consent, my two sisters alone being present
besides ourselves, I carried the matter further. We had dined in my
only sitting-room, mad tM duHrt tmJ8 6tiU &n tM IGbk. [I think I am
right, though my sister F. doubts.] 1 put Short to sleep in an arm-
chair, which I turned with its back to the table, and Short's face to
the wall. There was no mirror in the room. 1 asked Short, taking his
hand, if he thought he could taste what I took in my mouth, and he
said he thought that he could. I, still holding his hand, shut my own
eyes, and my sisters put into my mouth various things which were on
the table. I remember only raisins, but there were four or five various
substances tested. These were all quite correctly described, exceptthAt
I think there was an uncertainty about the kind of wine. Short,
however, had of course been aware of what was on the table, but he
could not know, nor did J know the order in which I was to be fed with
these things.
To carry the experiment further, one of my sisters left the room,
bringing back various things wholly unknown to me, which she ad-
ministered to me having my eyes shut. I remember spices, black
pepper, salt;. raw rice, and finally soap, all of which Short recognised,
and the last of which he rejected with a splutter of great disgust. The
experiment only ended when we could think of nothing more to taste.
I had at that time already left Oxford; Short did so soon after,
and our various occupations seldom allowed our meeting. I rather
think this of which I have spoken was the last time I ever mesmerised
him. [No.] His conviction of my power over him was such that he
begged that I would never attempt to place him under mesmeric
influence when I was at a distance from him, on the ground that as he
was rowing in the Oxford boat I might do so when he was on the
river. I had once affected him at a distance, under rather singular
circumstances, and of course willingly gave the promise.
O. KBGAll' PAUL.
[My sister F. is right in remarking that our four selves were the
only persons in the house. My only servant was a woman in the
village, who lived close by, and came and went at fixed hours, like an
Oxford scout.]
Letter to Miss Paul.
. . . In talking with my friend Henry Sidgwick over my
Digitized by Google
April,l886.J Jounlal rif 8ocietv.for P'IIMical Research. 245
experiments in mesmerism many years ago, 1 mentioned one with Short
at Tew, when you and M. were present. He has .&eked me to write
it down, and get if possible your recollections on it.
The particular experiment was one in which Short,:being in the
mesmeric sleep, was able to taste what was put into my mouth.
If you recollect the circumstance at all, 1 want you before reading
what 1 have said, enclosed in another envelope, to write down a state-
ment of what you remember as much in detail as possible-time, place.
persons present, things tasted, &c.
TIwn. to read my narrative and to write also how far your recollec-
tion, thus refreshed, tallies with mine, and preserve both accounts, even
if you find them contradictory.
Then to send my account and your account and remarks enclosed to
M., together with this note, asking her to follow exactly the same
plan, and return my statement, youn, and her own to me together tciIA
tAis note.
* * * C. KBQAN PAUL.
I should like you also to·say that you have observed my order of
proceeding as indicated above.
Account by Miss Paul.
On Thursday, April 29th, 1852, my sister and 1 went to stay with
my brother at Great Tew, in Oxfordshire, and Mr. Shortjoined us at
Oxford, and went with us to Tew.
As he returned to Oxford on Saturday, May 1st, the mesmeric
experiments, which 1 well remember, must have been on Friday, April
30th, and they were after dinner in the evening.
My brother mesmerised Mr. Short, and when he was quite asleep
he tried some expeliments.
My brother drank some wine (I think it was port) and we saw Mr.
Short's lips and throat moving as if he was swallowing it, and on my
brother asking him what he was drinking he at once said what it was.
The wine had been taken from a cupboard and poured out where,
-even had he been awake, Mr. Short could not have seen what it was
before tasting it.
[I think my own account is the more correct.-C. K. P.]
My sister then got some black pepper from the kitchen and put it
in my brother's hand, and on his putting some in his own mouth
Mr. Short at once tasted it, and on my brother asking him what he had
inhis mouth, he said it was very hot and unpleasant, but was not quite
aure what it was.
My brother held Mr. Short's hand all the time.
Digitized by Google
2406 JOllrnal(!f Sockt.'1 for P81/clu"cal Re8l'nrch. (April, 1886.
The only other thing I remember is that on my brother's remonng
his hand after, and substituting my sister's, Mr. Short looked as if in
pain, and said the change was unpleasant.
No one else was in the little cottage at the tinte.
F. K. PAUL.
J[ay2itk.
Since writing my account I ha.ve read my brother's, and think it
very accurate, as now I am reminded of the soap, &c. I can faintly
recollect it, but not clearly. as I do the things I 11lwe written down.
Also I think the dessert had been put away, and the wine taken
out again on purpose.
I remember the date, as I have always written down "ery shortly
the events of each day.
My brother went from Tew to Oxford on }lay 4th, for two days,
e.nd I remember he told us on his return that he had while there mes-
merised Mr. Short, and I think that was the last time he did so.
FRANCES KZGAN PACt.
Account by M~. P.
In the year1852 or1853,1believe at Bloxham [CertainlyTew.-C.K.P.]
I remember mybrother trying experiments on a friend, Mr. Short, whom
he was in the habit of mesmerising. Oneet'ening I saw him mesmerise
Mr. Short,and while he was in that state my brother asked for a glassof
water or wine, and drank it. Mr. Short appeared as if he was drink·
ing, and swallowed, and made a reply when asked what it was, but the
experiment I remember best was, after my getting some pepper, and
giviitg it to my brother, he putsome into his mouth,and Mr.Shortlooked
as if in pain, and said "hot.'" Then I took his hand, and his face
changed, and I think he said "nasty." I know he seemed to dislike the
change from my brother's touch, but although I know there were
other experiments, it is so long ago that I cannot quite recall
them.
M.E. P.
Jlag 29tlt, 1884.
P.S.-Since writing the above I have read my brother's narrath'e.
which is, I think, substantially correct.
(Letter from llrs. P. to her brother, Mr. Kegan Paul.)
May 29"_, 1884,
• • I received the enclosed to-day, and t have written what
I remembered at Bloxham. I may be wrong, but I don't rememberseeing
Mr. Short at Great Tew, but remember your mesmerising him at
Bltn:ham. Also from there you went to Oxford, and on your return you
told me Mr. Short in.a state of clairvoyance had seen me on the ladder
• DiQitizedbyGoogle
Aplil, 1886.] Journal q.f Societ!1 for P'!lchiCilI Reseal·cl,. 247
orsteps you had for your bookcase, and I remember feeling angry
about it, thinking it unpleasant. It was in the dini1&3 room at Rlox·
IlIIm you mesmerised hinl. .
P.S.-Fanny's date would make it too late for Tew, but she sa!J#
Tew. I think I did not go to Tew until I drove therA with Uncle W.
and Auntie, but I cannot quite remember it all.
[lIrs. P. is certainly wrong about place, not that it matters much.
The visit of which she speaks with my uncle was in the summer of 1851..
~/r;l'e the circumstances described. My sister, Miss Paul's, diary,
which she has always kept with great care, is conclusive on this.
point.]-Noteby Mr. Kegan Paul.
Account by Mr. W. F. Short in a letter to Mr. Podmore.
The Rectory, Donhead St. Mary, Salisbury.
Jt£7~ 12tl', 1884.
DEAR SIR,-Stock tells me you would like my accoun1i of some
mesmeric experiences of mine at Great Tew in the year '52. You are
very welcome, but 32 years may have impaired my memory for the
details, and I should like Kegan Paul to see the account Lefore any use-
is made of it.
I had come up to New College by accident a week before the time;.
and finding college empty accepted an invitation to pay Paul, then
curate of Great Tew, a visit. One night, I think the Thursday
following, he mesmerised me, and made, I believe, some successful
experiments in the "transference of taste"; but of these, as J was in.
a deep sleep, I can say nothing. When I was in due time awakened,.
he said, "We tried to get you to visit New College, but you said it.
was all a guess, and would tell us nothing." I answered, "I seem to.
ha\"e tIreamt of New College Junior Common-room, antI to have seen
B. and G. sitting at a small round table drawn near the fire, with the.
lamp on the large table near them, playing at cards." It was agreed
that I should test the truth of this on my return to Oxford 011 Friday
(one day before men in general came up). On entering college I met.
B. and said: "You up 7 Are there any other men come t" " Oh,
yes; half-a-dozen. G. and so-and-so," &c. "Were you in Common-
room last night at 10 (1) 1" " Yes." "Who else was there t" " Oh,.
the whole lot of us. No, by 10 everyone was gone but I and G,'·
.. Where were you sitting 1" I~ At a small table close to the fire, it.
was so cold." "With the lamp on the big table near you 1" " Yes,.
drawn close to us." "Then I tell you what you were doing. You
Were playing cards." "How odd! We weren't playing cards, but G.
Was showing me tricks on the cards."
I have always thought this a thoroughly good case, too exact to be
a mere coincidence, and I think tolerabii a~cunte even in the words
Digitized by Google
248 JOllrnal qf Socl'etyfor Psychical Rese"rch. [April. 1.886.
used, but those who do not like myself believe in clairvoyance will
probably set it down to a happy guess.
I have not for many years had any experience of mesmerism, but
sfter this, for some years, I saw a great deal of it, and have no more
4loubt of its reality, even in its higher phases of inducing clairvoyance,
J::c., than I have of my own existence.
I doubt whether B. would remember this (I don't think G. eyer
heard of it), but I would write to him if you like it, only I am rather
<lverworked just now.-Believe me, yours very truly,
W. F. SHORT.
P.S.-Did not we use to meet at "the Lodge," at Oxford, when 1
W'1.8 tutor of New 1
P.P.S.-I should say that in old days Scholars as well as Fellows at
New could come up at any time during vacation, but could not go
<lown without leave.
Additional Statement by Mr. C. Kegan Paul.
June 16th, 1884.
I am sorry to say I do not remember much about the clairvoyance
"art of the experiment with WalterShort, though I remember the com-
munity of taste vividly, and have described it to Mr. Sidgwick.
Short became clairvoyant on several occasions under my mesmerism,
but I do not recall the details with certainty.
On the evening in question I only remember that on trying some
-experiments Short said he was tired, and wished to be wakened. I do
not remember his mentioning his "dream)J or that I heard afterwards
llOw nearly correct it had been.
It is probable that he did mention the dream, but that I paid little
.attention to it, being full of the first experiment, and that as I only saw
him occasionally, and we did not exchange letters, I never heard the
verification.
C. KEGAN PAUL.
Additional Statement by Mr. W. F. Short.
FebruartJ 1St/I) 1886.
My friend B. remembered nothing of the circumstances (naturally
.enough) though I feel pretty sure it took place.
I am afraid I cannot remember the other occasion which Mrs. P.
mentions.
I was, I fancy, many times clairvoyant, but of course my memory is
almost, if not quite, entirely of things others told me I had seen in
trance, and these, after more than 30 years, are not very clear or well
Dxed in my mind. • • • •
W. F. SHORT.
April. 1886.] JOflrna/ of Sockt!/ lor PS!lcMca/ Restarc/•• 249
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Oontinued. )
[TAe LitenJry <hmmitke 'DiU be glad to ftCeiWl 1DeU lJuthenticated elliclence oj
~ belonging to any of the follotci~ ct-., .tpecimem of wlaWt are
/r'r1M time to time neorded in thil Jm,mcd:
L. PhantMml of the Liting.
O. Phaf~ of the Dead.
II. Hypnotilm, Meameriam, and Olail"llO'lJClfl«.
P. Mmaition and Premonition.
S. Milcellaneou. phenomena of the kind aometimu ducribed a•
..SpiritualUtic."
Pe1'l0nm aptr6encU of ".,lIO") halltcci1latKnUl" of any 80rl 'Will aZ80
be welt:otne.
Oommunicatiom intended for the LiteraTI' Committee .hould be addre88ed
to .&l"u"wl Gumeu, B8q., 26, MonIt*ier-II,lware, London, 8. W.; or, to
1'rederic W. H. Myer., Baq., Leckhampton Hmue, Oambridge.]
G.-181.
The following case of haunting in an old Elizabethan manor house,
is one of which an abstract was given in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on
" Phantasms of the Dead," in Part VIIT. of the Proceeding" at pp.
117-119. Though there is still probably much to learn about the
history of the house, and the experiences of its inhabitants, we have
already obtained information from a larger number of occupiers than
'We have in most cases been able to do, and one remarkable fact is
IlOticeable, namely, that the character of the phenomena has changed
from time to time, varying apparently with the tenants. The legend
IUppoaed to account for the haunting has also varied.
It is now aprarently eighteen years since any abnormal sights or
IOUnds have been observed there. Whether the alterations which the
house underwent in 1875 have contributed to this cessation of the
phenomena we cannot of course be sure.
We give the accounts of di1ferent witnesses in the chronological
order of the events to which they refer. The first is from Mr. C. C.
Maasey, whose father and mother at one time occupied the house.
[May ~th, 1885.]
I met last week an old lady (75), a cousinof mine, who was staying with
my father and mother at J. Houe in the year 1834 or 1835. My father
had to go away for a day or two on buaineaa, and my cousin slept with my
mother on account of the apprehensions both were under from the reports
of disturbances.
They left the door open. While awake they both heard a sound
Q
Digitized by Google
2·')0 ,T01(I'II((/ '!f Sorie/llfo}" PI<!I~Mcnl ReSMI'c.l,. [April, 1886.
aa of the cllUlhing of chai~, followed by a rustling, as of a Bilk drea,
plIoIISing nlong the corridor.
?try cousin had heard, and believed, th:l.t the house was used by a gang of
coiners, and an underground passage was supposed to exist. She attributed
the noises to the attempts of theso people to frighten the inmates.
Somo time after, she received a newspaper report of a trial of coiners,
in which .J. House was mentioned. But she does not recollect par-
ticulars. Mentioning these circumst.'Ulcos' lately to Colonel L, whose
family once owned the houso, he denied the coiner story, and maintained
that many facts known to him were inconsistent with thia explanation, in
which, however, tho old lady still believes.
C. C. MA..~EY.
In another letter, dated 19th February, 1885, Mr. Ma.sseyatates that hit
fnther "never considered that his occupation hnd been disturbed by any-
thing at all inexplicable, and discredited the reports. But I can say positively
that I heard, long before 1860, of J. House a.s reputed to be haunted.II
Account of J. House by the Rev. Darrell Horlock, fonnerly resident
therein, and now S.P.G. missionary at tha town of Ko.mloops, Britilh
Columbia.
[This account was written, at our request, in the spring of 1884, by Mr.
Hurlock, and has lately been revised by him in the proof she~ts.]
In the summer of 1861 this old Elizabet.han manor house wa.s rented for
a term of three yea.rs a.s a hunting box by 1fr. Darrell Horlock (son of the
Rev. Dr. Horlock, then Vicar of --", II. ,"mage situate about three miles
therefrom, and of tho old Gloucestorshire family of hunting notoriety),
from the then owners of the estate, the family of L.
Mr. D. Horlock waa then a young man of 25. He had been marriedabout
two years. Mr. Horlock was a. ma.n utterly free from nil superstitious tenden-
cies, and of great physicnl courage. His life was entirely devoted to field
sports and athletics, and he was well known as a fine rider to hounds, a good
shot, &c.
Before he rented J. House he had heard many reports that it
was haunted. These ,vere of a genel'lll character, there being no description
of any appearance. It was simply a well known legend of the neighbour-
h(lod, and was utterly disbelieved and despised by Mr. Horlock. Indeed,
it was absolutely forgotten when he arrived at tho house to take possession
nnd to prepare for Ius wife, whom he had left in Surrey, one summer even-
illg in J Illy or August.
Mr. Horlock bruught with him servants, horses, carriages, dogs, &c., and
it was his intention, after seeing these comfortably established, to walk over
and spend the night at Ills father's house.
Shortly 'lfter the arrival 0.11 oM Wl'lIlan from a neighbouring cott.'lge came
in to see the servants about securing the washing of the family. Mr. Hor-
lock going into the kitchen found nil the women "in tears. They protested
thnt they had been informed that the" house was not fit to'live in," and
refused to stay the night there unless Mr. Horlock remained.
Mr. Horlock, after trying argument and persuasion in vain, gave thc:m
the option of le:wing altogether or remaining tho night, whereon at that they
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] Journal qf Socu!fulor PII!lcltical ReBf'nrck. 251
------
consented to remain, and on the following morning on his returning to the
h01l8ll he found they bad not been alarmed or dieturbed in any way. Be
lIOW took up his residence there, and the following night an attempt was
made by some of the workmen or neighbours, it never tmnspired which, to
play the ghOst on him. The judicioull use of a pistol put an end for ever to
all luch tricb. Mrs. Horlock shortly arrived, and for some days the house
was entirely undieturbed.
Then extraordinary noises began to be heard at night, and the servants
complained that not only were they very much terrified by rumblings,
o!lCning and shutting of doors, whistlings, clankings, &c., but that their
clothes and the furniture of their rooms were found in the morning in very
different }1ositions from those in':which they were placed at night. Mr. and
lIl'11. Horlock, although they heard the noises constantly, simplyattribute1
t~lem to natural causes and laughed the servantB' fears to scorn, forbidding
themalso to mention tllem outBide.
The noises seemed to grow and increase, and at last Mr. Horlock made a
thorough examination of certain unused attics amI broke open several
walled-up roOIJl3, ascertaining that no natural cause could pouibly exist
which could account for them.
He became now perfectly accustomed to those noises, and ceased now to
lI.)tice them. Mrs. Horlock, on the contrary, began to become nervous in a
curious way-not afraid, and not believing the least in their beiong caused
by anything supernatural, but a certain indescribable something weighed
upon her which caused her to shiver and shrink and fedl involuntary dread.
at something she knew not what. In the meanwhile Mrs. Horlock's sister,
:m. S., a lady of great nerve and sterling common-senae, came to stay at
J. and Mr. Horlock asked her privately to endeavour to combine with
him in reaaoning her sister out of these" absurd fancies." Miu S. slept
in what was called the haunted room. She heard some noises but was not;
disturbed or in any way frightened by them.
During her !tay, one night in the spring or summer of 1862, Mr. Horlock
had retired to rest at his usual hour and had fallen asloep, his wife alao being
iaat asleep by hiB side, when suddenly he awoke with an icy cold altiver from
head to foot. (The room contained four. windows, each opposite each, and
two doors.)
It was a fine moonlight night, and every object in the room was distinctly
,·isible. At the comer of the foot of the bed, standing in the croBS-light of
two windows, and in front of a large wardrobe, etood the fipre of an old
lady. She was attired in a black poke bonnet, which extended far over the
face, and in a dark gown and a grey shawl. Her eyes were hollow and
&hrunken, and her face was wrinkled, but otherwise there was nothing
hideous or the least alanDing in the sight. At first Mr. Horlock thought he
was dreaming; the cold shiver passed and he did not feel the least fear.
Only such a sensation of awe as everyone more or less experiences at the
night of a dead body. He sat up in bed very quietly for fear of awaking his
wife, and calmly studied the figure.
••Can this be the ghost tl1ey talk of 7" he said to himself. "Well, if it is.
it beat. me how anyone can be afraid of une."
Q 2
Digitized by Google
262 JOUI'IIOI qf Society Jor Paychicallleaearch. [April 1886.
AI he gazed he noticed one very extraordina.ry circuUlstance. The figuro
draped in dark appeared to be opaque, and yet through it he could distinctly
see the knobl of the drawers of the wardrobe. He was almost uncontrollably
anxious to addreu th~ lady, but feared to do so lest he should awake his
wife, feeling sure that in her peculiarly nervous state the sight would
probably kill her.
The figure stood still for two or three minutes gazing steadfastly at him
and then suddenly disappeared. Mr. Horlock immediately roae from his bed
and made invesaigauon of doors, windows, and overy object in the room,
first of all without, and then with a candle. All the doors and windows were
aecurely fastened, and there was no possible combination of light or shade
which could have produced this or any other phantom. Mr. Horlock wu
more particular to thoroughly latiafy hinuelf on this point on account of a
circumstance which had happened to him some year or 10 before in his
former house in S\UTIly :-
Mrs. Horlock was away from home. He awoke in the night, a
brilliant moonlight shining through the window, and there, hy the door
of the room, stood Mrs. Horlock, attired in hat, cloak, and all her USl1al
attire.
His first feeling was a terrible fear leat lOme fatal .accident might have
befallen his wife, and ·her spirit have been allowed to appear to him II ..
warning thereof. He immediately, crushing down the fear, got out of bed
and walked to tho figure, when he found that Mrs. Horlock's complete
walking attire was hansPng to the door, and on returning to his bed marked
with interest the peculiar manner in which the rays of the moon threw it
out into bold relief, giving it, even, after he knew what it was, the exact.
appearance of a living figure.
But to resume :-
Some days after the appearance of the ghost, Mr. Horlock, under the
pledge of absolute secresy, confided the account to Miss S., causing her to
give a solemn promise that abe would never even divulge a hint of the
story until she received his permiuion to do so, and this promise it is well
known was mOBt religiously observed.
Mr. Horlock after this never laW any other visible appearance. The
eJl'ect on his mind was inconsiderable. He believed now what he did not.
before, that the spirits of the dead were allowed sometimes to appear to the
living. He believed that the house he occupied was allowed to be the acene
of such appearances; and he believed that this fact might account for no_
and senlations which to him before had always been unaccountable. But.
not tho leut sensation of fear was produced by this knowledge- on the con·
trary, a feeling of confidence that the sight of a spirit did not terrify and
could not harm. His chief wish was to behold the same being again when
alone and to question it, and for this purpose he slept alone at various times
in dift'erent rooms in the house, but never saw anything. He~ now, too,
to suspect and to investigate two circumstances which had occurred befort,
which at the time excited no question in his mind.
One was with regard to his father, the Rev. Dr. Horlock, who had
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] JOllrnal Qf Societ!JlOl' P8!JckicaI1le8earcn. 233
1Ilept one night in the house, but could never be prevailed to sleep
another.
The other with regard to his old nurse, who had been at one time hi.
houaekeeper,but had left him long before he came to J.'to undertake
, the same duties for his father. The old woman had been in the habit of con-
atantly visiting him at J., staying a night or two at a time. At laat
-there had come a day when no persuasion would induce her to spend a night
under his roof. She always had a good excuse, 80 good that he had never
.suspected anything-ehe would often come to spend the day but always left
before nightfall.
Without divulging anything he had seen he himself set to woric to cro..-
~xamine both these persona, but was entirely unsucceaaful in gaining the
least clue from either for several months, when at last, under great presaure,
Dr. Horlock admitted that during the night he had spent at J. he
had been kept awake the whole night by the sound of some one being
.st.r&niled and gasping for breath in his ~m. That he could discover nothing,
but that he had been 80 terribly wmerved that no earthly power would in-
duce him e,ver to spend another night in the house.
Dr. Horlock had always been a finn unbeliever in ghoata.
The old woman, Mra. P., was as yet utterly impervious to all entreaties.
She peraiatently refused to say a single word or even expreaa an opinion as
to ghoata or anything of the 8Ort. I may add here that Mias S. had left;
J. very Bhortly after she had been told the story, and had not seen
Mrs. P. before abe left, and never did see her again till two yean after,
under circumstances which will presently be related.
The effect of J. on animala was a marked one.
Every cat died in a few months of a mysterious wasting sieknesa. Mr.
Horlock had a panicularly Bharp, savage Scotch terrier, anoted killer of ver-
min. This dog occupieda box at night ina back paaaage. After nightfall the
animal always retired to ita box and curled itaelf up in a heap with ita
head hidden by ita paws. 1oI0 coming of strangers, no noise, no entreaties
would ever prevail on it to tako any notice. On one occaaion when Mr. Hor-
lock turned a live rat 1008e on ita body it allowed the animal to escape witb-
out even raiaing ita head. Remove this dog to any other house and it was
& difFerent creature. At the slightest noise it would be on the alert. At the
eoming of a stranger it would tear a door down to get at him, and any 80rt
of vermin it would tear to pieces in a second.
Mr. Horlock describes his sensationa in walking about the house after
nightfall. Not fear, but a sensation of 80me one always walking behind
you ; a 80rt of expectation that any moment a hand would be placed on your
shoulder. On one occaaion when he was Btanding in the dining.room with
& candle in his hand, comparing the clock with his watch about midnight,
all doors and windows closed and a perfectly Billl night, he lelt a distinct
breath on his neck behind, and the next moment the candle was violently
bloG out, and the room left in utter darkneaa.
Shortly after the ghOllt's appearance to Mr. Horlock, one evening the
footman bronght ~hta into the Bmoking-room, whieh was on the first floor of
Digitized by Google
264 J()f1r11n1l?f &cief!l lor P8J/ckicnl Re,enrclJ. [April, 18l!6.
the house, and started violently back on seeing both ?tin. Horlock and Mill
S. sitting thoro. .. What's the row 1" said Mr. Horlock. .. Why, air,"
he said, .. I just met Miss S. going into the drawing-room, and 1 told her I
would brilJg her a light in a moment. I ,,-aa just going to do it."
"Who could it have been? You had better go and aee," said Mr.
Horlock, "and not bring a lot of silly tales up here."
On Imother occasion it was a beautifully bright SUllUner nloonlit night.
not a breath of air stirring. ?tIr. Horlock waa lying awake in bed, the back
windows of the room being open. There were five or six dogs each tied tt)
a separate kelIDel all round the house; while at one angle, about 100 yards
from it, W:\8 a mrge kennel containing eight or ten morc.
Everything was still as death, not 1\ stir or a sound, when suddenly
there came sobbing on his oar a low, clear and sweet musical sigh. like thtt
sound of a far away breeze. It commenced at the south angle of the house,
and went slowly and distinctly completely round. As it seemed to l-
each kennel, each dog gave one long drawn bowl and waa silent. As it
reachod the large kennel every dog howled once in concert, and then. taken
up in tum by the solitary on88 beyond, it ended where it began. This llad
a strangely weird effect.
In the spring of 1863, the Horlocks lert England for a Continental
tour and let J. House w a 1\lr. D. for the rest of their term. Un
their return Mr. Horlock took a hunting an:! shooting box in Oxfordshire,
and Miss S. came to visit them. A few days after her arrival, tl1e old
'Woman before mentioned, :&Irs. P., came also for a few days' loisit. On the
evening of her arrival,. Mrs. Horlock and Miu S. were sitting with Mr_
Horlock in his smoking-room, and the conversation turned on J. and
ita peculiarities; and then for the first time 1\lr. Horlock told his wife of
the appearance, giving a minute description as above, and before this neither
Mr. Horlock nor Miss S. had ever mentioned the subject to any living soul.
except to each other. .
At last Afr. Horlock said, "Let us have the old lady up and see if we can
get anything out of her as to the roason she would never sloep at J."
On this question being asked she refused, as before, to explain tl1e matter at
all, but on being preued as to whether sho had ever seen anything in tho
house, and it being represented to her that it could not make any difference
now, as the Horlocks had left the house for ever, she said, "'Veil, I did see
something once, and that is the reason I never could sleep in the house
again," Wid she thereon gal-e a description of the appearance, exactly tallying
with Mr. Horlock's in even the most minute detail, before the two witnesses.
one of whom hnd just heard it for the first and tile other for the sect)lld
time, from his lips.
J. House was occupied about two years by Mr. Horh>ck's tensnt,
after which, I believe, it remained vacant for somo time. It was then
purchased by a neighbouring squire and turned into 1\ parsonage house
for a. new district which was then fOmled.
There nrc lllany ghost stories told of it during the occupation of Mr.
Horlock's tenant and others.
Digitized by Google
•,April. 1586.] Journal '!f Socid!/ for PS!lcllieol Re3eorcll. 255
Of the actors in bile abo\'e story, both Mrs. Horlock and Mrs. P. have
long since entered into their rest. Dr. Horlock and Miss S. are still alive
and in England. I do not know where the footman is. Mr. Horlock took
Holy Orders ill 1877, and is now a missionary in British Columbia.
He has ne\'er seen any spiritual appearance aince tho event related above.
He is still thoroughly convinced of its truUI, and he can see at this moment
every feature and every detail of the ghost of J. Houso as clearly lUI
on that night in 1862.
In reply to our inquiries, Mr. Horlock explains, in u. further letter, that
his tenants, the Do's, are now dead.
He adds that he believes the blinds were dra\nl up on the occasion of
his seeing the apparition in his bedroom. He has had no other hallucina.tion.
After his account had been written, the account previously written by
Mrs. Horlock to Miss Corbet (Associate S.P.R.), of which we append a
copy, was sent to him. Mrs. Horlock describes the footman as going iuto the
drawing·room and discovering his mistake before he came to the smoking-
room to tell his master what he had seen. Mr. Horloek states that his
version of Ute incident ill correct.
October 8th, 1873.
DEA.R MI8S CORBET, I am most happy to write and tell you
anytbing I can about .J ---. When I first went there I was an entire un-
believer in ghosts, but after bemg there a very short time, though I fought
against it, and tried to account for the curiom sounds and feelings I hcaI'(l
and felt there, I was convinced that the hOllse was different from others. I
never saw anything myself, but could not go about the house at night with·
out feeling there was something near me, and I have frequently been
awakened at night with the feeling of some one standing by my bed, and
oould almost hear them breathe. My fancy is that some peoplo cannot see
ghoets. The very first night we were in the house we heard the noises. At
tinles they were horrible. Muans and cries of distre88, then as if people
were moving quickly about. In the top story of the houflc there w('re several
attics very much out of repair, and wo thought there might be rats there, so
we put down traps and laid wheat there, but we ne,er caught a rat, nor WI\.'!
tho wheat et\ten. I believe after we left there were a few caught, but r
think we brought them. One day I was poking about ill the attics trying to
find something 1;.) account for the noises, when I knocked n. wall, which
Bounded hullow. My hUflband and I immediately sot to work and pulled
down a partition which co\'ored u. door. On breaking this open we dis-
eovClroo a passage and two roollls ; these rool11s wllre in good repair. Until
I left tho house I did not know p08itil'eill that anything had been seen, as my
husband waa afraid of telling me. Our footman saw .. the Blue Lady" one
evening after dinner, when my husband and myself were sitting in the
smoking-room, which was upstairs. H.J said he distinctly saw a lady cOllie
down the front stairs, and go into the drawing-room. Sho had a silk dress
on, and he heard it rustle. It was getting dusk, and there were no lights in
the room. Thinking it was me, he ran for a light, and tUf'k it into the room;
there was no one there, and Illuch frightened he ran upst.'lil'l', and asked ii I
gitized by (.oogI
256 JOflrnnl of Soc;,ly for P8gchicalRe8earch. [April, 1888.
had left the room. I had not, and we told him he must have been mistaken.
This waa the only time I heard of it being seen while I remained at J. bnt
some monthI after weleft my husband told me the atory of biB seeing it. Our
bedroom had four windowl in it, two on each aide of the room. It was 011
a bright night in March (not moonlight) he was awakened with the feeling of
lome one being in the roonl. He sat up in bed, and saw an old lady in a large
poke bonnet and black dr811 ltanding between hun and the window. She
was not at all terrible to look at, and atood and gazed on him some seconds,
and disappeared. He said he dB not feel in the leut frightened, or nervoUi
(he is the last man you could imagine being so). He knows he was awake, and
perfectly aenaible, and if he had been alone would have apoken to her.
Some time after I was talking to our old housekeeper (ahe had been my hUl-
band'a nurae, and was more a friend than a lervant) about J., and I said,
.. Now we have left I do not mind telling you that I believe J. was
haunted." (We alwaya told the aervants it was all nonsenle.) Her replywaa,
" I know it was for I saw the ghost," and ahe described word for word the same
figure that my huaband saw. She had not the least idea of his having seen
it. She said ahe felt very reatleaa one night, and got out of bed, and there
atanding close to her, was the old woman. She was much frightened, and
would neversleep in the house alone again. You may rely on the truth of
this, and both my husband and Mrs. Phillips seeing and describing, unknown
to each other, the same thing, is a most curious coincidence. I will tell you
one incident more, but I fear I ahall be trying your patience to read 10 much.
I had a little rough terrier who used to sleep in the paaaage at night, and if we
went out to a ball, &c., and were likely to be late, we uaed to aend the ser-
vants to bed, and ring them up. The dog was a fiery little thing, andst the
alightest noise at night would bark furioUlly, but a ahort time after we had
been at J. we came home late and rang the bell, and had some difficulty in
making the aervants hear. I l"emarked to my husband what an extraordi-
nary thing it was Tiny did not bark, and that she muat have been taken
upatairs, but on going into the passageI found her in her basket, and no in-
ducement of mine could mako her raise her head. I watched her closely
afterwards, and I found ahe would go to her basket directly it was dark, and
nothing could make her move,though I did everything to mako her. When
we went into another house she was as noisy as ever. There are lote of
other stories about the hOUlO, many very aillyand quite untrue, for instance,
the atory of the table cloth. Dr. Horlock slept one night at the houle and
heard the noisea, and nothing could make him sleep there again. We heard
them 10 frequently that, though always disagreeable, we ill a way got used
to them. I hope, however, I may never have to live in auch a hOUie again.
I believe the L.'a could throw a light on this aubject if they liked • • • •
Youra very sincerely,
ALIOB BORLOCIt.
We append three letters from Miss Saward, who was staying with
Mrs. Horlock at the time when the apparition was seen.
Weatleigh, Ealing.
June 17th, 1886.
DEAR SIR,-I am afraid that my teatimony reapecting the manifestations
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] J{)Iwnal qf Society for Psgchical Relfearch. 257
at J., reported to you by the Rev. D. Horlock, will not be of mach value,
as, although in the house at the time, I did not see any of the appearances.
!lr. Horlock, the morning after he saw ilie apparition, told me of the
occurrence, and we wrote down the date, &c., and Bealed 'up the paper.
The appearance was never mentioned by me until we left J., but the house-
keeper(Mr. Horlock's old nurae) told us that she had seen the same figure
one night, but had aaid nothing about it for fear of frightening the servants.
Her account of the figure was similar to Mr. Horlock's.
I was also at J. when the footman, in the dusk of the evening, saw a
lady walk down the stairs and go into the drawing-room. He thought itwas
'me, and he spoke, and followed with a candle, thinking I should require &
light. Finding no one in the room he came into the smoking-room, where
we all were, and asked if I had been into the drawing-room. The man was
not frightened, but kept steadily to the fact that he had seen a figure.
I helped Mr. Horlock to take down the boards fastening up the room
where the murder was committed, to see if there was any trace of the room
being used by people not belonging to the house, and anxious to get rid of us,
but there was nothing, and no entrance that could have been used from out-
side, :md the window closely barred. The houso was old and wainscoated,
and full of noises, IVhich might have been, and probably were, made by rata
(though we never found any, and had several terriers loose); the only con-
nected noise I used to hear was that of a ladder placed against the window
and people ascending. I have constantly risen to lItIe if I could surprise any-
one, but never found anyone about. After I left I conn~cted the noise with
the idea that the relations who stal"l'ed the old woman would be able to
watch her in the night by looking through the windew at her without being
seCll themseh·es. • • • •
B. C. SAWARD.
J,t!le 22·/ld, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-I did not enlarge upon the apparition aeen by Mr. Horlock
and the nurse, as my knowledge of the circumstance was from ot.hers, and
did not come from my own observation.
Mr. Horlock told me, the morning afterwards; of that I am certain 88
he called me away from breakfast into the garden to do so. He W88 so
anxious to speak of it, to someone who was not nervous, my sister being
nervous and not strong. His account was that he woke in the night amI 88W
an old woman standing at the foot of the bed (on his side), and looking
fixedly at him. He could see her well 88 a wardrobe was behind, or rather
at the side, and threw out the figure, and"a window facing her and behind.
The room had windows on both sides of it facing each other.
Mr. Horlock sat up in bed and looked at the figure ;he was not frightened,
but did not speak for fear of disturbing my sister, who was asleep, and easily
wakened. The old woman was short, dre88ed in a black poke bonnet, plain
dress and shawl. She gradually faded away while Mr. Horlock looked
at her.
The nurse was in a di1f'erent part of the house when she 8811' the figure.
She \voke in the night, got out of bed, and then saw an old woman standing
gitized by (..oogI
268 Jo",.,wl qf Societ.1I .fo,. P8.'lclu"cal Research. [April,18SG.
by the lide of the bed, and close to her. She waa 10 frightened that shc got
back into bed and covered her face up. She described the dress nud heigh~
as Mr. Horlock did, although she was 1I0t awnre that he had seen
anything. • • • •
B. C. SA\\"AIW.
P.S.-Thltre was a croaslight in the nune's room, and the figure was scen
between the two windows, 88 in Mr. Horlock's case.
J1Ine 24tli, 188i>.
DEAR Sm,-I am sorry to IJ."ly I cannot give you any date fixing the
nUl'8e's tale, or when I heard it.
Mr. and Mrs. Horlock went to Brittany from J --, and were there
for nearly two years, and tile nurse did not go with them, but lived again
with thorn when they returned. I either heard the accollnt from lIr. Hvr·
lock when I went to lee them at Morlab.:, or from the nurae after the lal';e
of two years. • • . •
B. C. SAW..lRD.
We have written repeatedly to Dr. Horlock. the father of Mr.
Darrell Horlock, asking for an account of his experiences when stay-
ing at J. House, but we have failed to receive any reply to our let.t~r.;.
Mr. Horlock left the honse in the spring of 1863, and it W,tS
occupied by his tenants, the D.'s, until some time in 1864-, apparently.
The house then appears to have remained empty until 186i, when 1\lr.
B. and his family entered on their tenancy.
The following account is taken from a copy made by Mr. H. Wed;!-
wood ofsome letters and notes sent to him in Janua.ry. 1882, by lIr.
B, The account has been revised by Mr. B: in'the proof sheets.
Among the c..ldest inhabitants of this neighbourhood thore is all imprcS3ion
that J. House was baunted. A lady upwards of 70 who had known
it all her life, and whose testimony was unimpeachable, averred that she h3d
always heard that Bupematuralappearallces had been Bccn in it. The present
occupier had heard rumoura to tile aame e1l'ect but he attached 110 im-
portance to thorn. He had not been many houra in the house, howet"er,
before Ilis preconceived ideas met with II. rude shock. While engaged abouL
3 o'clock in the afternoon with a servant unpacking a box of books, he wos
startled by hearing a rustling sound. The room where he waa at the tinu'
adjoined a passage that led to tile upper landing of the old staircase ; a door
from this room stood open towards the landing for the sake of admittini,;
additional light from the staircase window. Tile matling sounded like a
lady's dress and train sweeping along the passage to the landing. Knowing
that the only lady in the house was then resting in the library after a Ion:;
drive, he looked up in wonder and amazement to find out what strange lady
could be wandering about the house. Most distinctly ho saw emerge from
the above-named passage whatappeared to Ilim a lady in a kind of blue gaUZtl
dreBS, with long hair hanging down ber book. She walked acroas the land-
ing of the staircase, and aa her figure disappeared behind tho wall of the atair-
case the train followed slowly after her till all was out of sight.
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.J Jourllal ~f Sor.ipfyfor Pllychicn.l Rpllenrcll. 259'
Memorandum, Juno 18th (1868 apparentIy), 20 minutes to 9 p.m., th'"
firs~ year T. CIUIle to live with us.
l\Iary Ann waa in tIle bedroom (now our sitting-room) shutting up the·
windows, and 8uddenly felt II. strong wind which made it hard to shut the-
window, and hearing a rustling nuise turned round and saw a figure at tIle-
open door, with a hand on tho handle. She was looking rounel at Mary Ann
with a IIIId expression, large earnest eyes, thin long face, sunken cheeks. She-
had a dark dress with short sleeves ; hands and arms exceedingly white.
She gazed earnestIyat Mary Ann, and went up the five stepa from the door of
the bedroom ; MillY Ann BaW her go to the door of the littIe room (where we-
dine at present) and then alte vanished out of sight. MaryAnn did not feel
at all alarmed on thia occasion, but shortly afterwards coming down the
ltairs herself from the attics, alte beheld the figure going down the five steps
again towards the sa.me door where alte llad first leen her, and her trl~in
floated down the ltairs after her. On this occasion Mary Ann did not see-
her face, but such an intense telTOr and even hOlTOr took possession of
her, on seeing this appearance for the second time, that she never again
coald walk about the house alone after dark, and left her situation not long
afterwards.
12th July, 1868, to the Governess.
17th November, 1868, Captain H., 0. relative of tho family, saw a.
ladyin a blue dress; the hair dressed as in Hogarth's time; she wore a BaCk
and stomacher, and long train. Very thin, with sharp features and sunken
cheeks. Ber face appe-ared extremely Bad. As he was going up stairs ahe-
WB8 on the ataircase before him, and turned round, looking earnestly at
him. He walked past her, and thought no more of it at tIle inatlUlt. The
lIILIlle figure in the Bame dreaa appeared to him at duak aa he waa going up
the BIUlle staircase. He came up the atairaand went past her, and Baid "Oht
is that you again, my g--," and alte turned her head a little round and gave
the llame long wistful glance as before, and faded out of his aight.
Dream of Maid.-Aulunlll, 1873.
S.H., one ofthe l1lI\id servants, had a dream in which she BaW a very tall
woman with a cap on, and something white over her shoulders O\'er a dark
dreea-very white handa, the arms covered. She came to the aide of the bod
and asked S. in ratIler a loud voice, to follow her down the stairs IlIld pasa.'\ge
to the front stairs. She walked ratherfaat, and her drc88 draggell as ahe went
along. She \vent into the library, and walked between the billiard table
and after stamping loudly 3 times at the comer of the booka, then
vanished. She remembera no more but that slle woke very much frightened.
Second Dream.-October 15th, 1873.
The appelU'lUlce came to her bedside exactly as before, aresa and appear-
ance just the Barue. It had a very thin white face, and allemod aa if it was
full of trouble. It aeellled to take hold of her and drag her, but ahe did not
get out of bed. The figure asked S.H. if she had been whe1'e abe told her to
10 before, and she Baid "If you don't go very aoon, thia shall be a curse t~
Digitized by Google
260 Journal '?f SOt;cty for PS.I/,·hicfll Resc!1l·ck. [April, 181!11.
you." She then appeared to go out of the room, and S.H. woke up, finding
that in her terror ahe had caught hold of Eliza the housemaid, who slept in
the same bed.
Copy of letter from Governeaa written to wife of occupier.
One Sunday, about 6 o'clock, jUlt &I it 11'&1 beginning to get dusk, I was
.itting in the library al(lDe reading, and thinking that it W&I time to dreu
for dinner, went up the front ataircase to put the book back in tho Bitting-
room, when 1turned to go up the three atepa, 1 aaw the blue ladyapproaching
from the curtains of your bedroom. In appearance it was a tall, long, thin
face, looked &I if it had seen a great deal of sorrow ; long black hair hanging
round her, and abe was robed in a blue gauzy kind of atd. She glided
along, her eyea fixed on Mr. B.'a dre88ing-room. 1 saw her naked feet
diatinctly &I ahe walked down the three atepa into the dreaaing-room, and
disappeared. I thon ran up to abut the door, thinking to entrap the blue
la<1y, and &I I attempted to f&lteJi the door of the dreaaing-room by a latch
I think there ia, laaw the relloction of the blue lady in a mirror on the wall.
I went to the servants' hall,and Johnson came up with me and nndid the door
.,f the dressing-room, but it was gone.
'Ve have succeeded in tracing the govemeaa referred to, then Miss
P., now Mrs. Oliver. She writes to us in January, 1884, from II,
Clarence Terrace, Toronto.
On tho firat Sunday ill July, 1868, at the reaidenee of Mr. B., J--
House, near G--, about 4: o'clock in the afternoon, I 11'&1 going upatairs
!from the library, and had reached the bend of the ata.ircaae on which Mr.
B. 'a dre88ing-room 11'&1 aituated (anyone who knowa J-- House will under-
atand _tly the locality). On looking up, I saw a lady, dreaaed in blue, who
appeare<1 to be coming from Mrs. B.'a bedroom (which had heavy red curtains
()utaide the door), along the upper hall, down the throe atairs, and into Mr.
B.'a dreaaing-room. At that moment I could have touched her if I had had
courage, abe waa ao near me, yet apparently wholly unconacious of my pre-
.sence, her face the whole time turned towards the dreaaing-room, where abe
-entered and disappeared entirely. & hwnan did abe look that I closed Mr_
B.'a door. In the act of doing BO I distinctly saw her image rellected in It.
mirror which hung oppoaite the door. 1 called for someone to come, and
Wltil the moment I heard the servant say •• Misa P. haa seen the ghoat,"
never for one moment imagined I had Been a apirit, and I waa so certain that;
it 11'&1 a human form that aearch waa madt>, walla examined, &c., but to
no purpose.
I remained with the B.'a Home days after thia remarkable occurrence,
'but never saw the blue lady again. Her countenance wore a troubled
espre88ion, but very life-like. It atruck me at the time that her dress was
of ,ilk from the ruatling it made touching the atairs ; and certainly her feet,
which were nncovered, Boomed to be of ftuh. 1 am certain it mUlt have
been hOI) f)litmtea from the time I first saw her till her diaappea.1'IUlce, 80 that.
Digitized by Google
April, 1886.] Journal qf &r."l!t.llfol' P8!/cMcal RelJearch. 261
I could tau in details, and my feelings were those of surprise rather than
terror.
This is a true account of what laaw at J-- House.
ALICB G. OLIVER.
[We wrote again to Mrs. Oliver, at Toronto, asking some questions on.
points of detail; but our letter was returned, Mn. Oliver having left her
former addNIII.]
It appears that Mr. B. left J. in 1875, and that considerable
alterations were made in the honse before the arrival, in 18';"6, of tile
present occupant, who apparently has not been disturbed in any way.
Through the kindness of Mr. G. M. Hutton, of University College.
Oxford, we have obtained the following copy of a letter written to him
in December, 1883, by the daughter of Mr. B.'s successor.
We should add that we have obtained no verification of the tradi·
tion of highwaymen and murders referred to in this letter, and the
communication from America, which was sent a few years ago from
Canada to the then owner of the house, and a copy of which we have
seen, can most easily be explained either as a hoax or as an attempt
to obtain money on false pretences. .
" • • • I never heard of Anyone's having seen the Blue Lady except
Mr. B. and his govemell. A long time ago, perhaps 20 yean, some gentle-
man who came to lodge here for a little while, saw the Blue Lady'smother, an
old woman in a poke bonnet, called by the village people Old Betty, standing
at the foot of his bed. I believe she was frequently seen at that time. These
two well-authenticated ghosts are lihe more strange because I believe it is a
fact that at the time highwaymen lived in the house, they once stopped ..
coach on the Bath-road. and brought back a mother and daughter and their
treasure. Being punued, they are supposed to have murdered their priaonera
and escaped to America, leaving the treasure hidden in the house. A man
wrotefrom America a year or two ago (or perhaps more) offering to send [to
Mr. --] the clue to the hiding-place for a certain sum of money. He
said that hehad helped a. very old woman in some way, and that in return
she had told him that she was the wife of one of the robben, and had. given
him the clue to the treasure. • • • • The initiala over the drawing.
room fireplace are J. K. and R. K., followed by 1ihe date 1857. Theyare-
supposed to stand for two of the KingdOM, who built this part of the bouse.
and are not connected. with the highwaymen, who are not known to bave
lived here till about the beginning of this century. . • • ."
In reply to our further inquiriea, Mr. Hutton writes :-
Dtcember 26th, 1883.
• • • I am sorry I omitted to tell you that my correspondent is noW'
living in J-- House. Her father, Mr. B.'sIUCC88lor, has heen in poII8IIion
of the house fo~, I ahould think, six yean now. He baa a large family c,f
seven children of all agel, and the Blue Lady seems to object tG children.
Digitized by Google
JOllrllal '!f Socif't!lfnr PJj!lcltical Rf!8f'al'cn. [April, 18SG-
for not one of them, as far as I can gather, hlUl seen or heard anything extra-
cJrdinary during the whole time of their residence there. • • • •
GElUlLD M. HU'l'TOx.
It may be interesting to add pa.rt of a.n account from one of our
~orrespondents, who repeats "the tale as told" to her, after it had
.passed through several hands :-
This blue lady is constantly appearing to the inhabitants of the house
and lUI long lUI they do not see her face it is bearable, but anyone seeing it
goes into hysterics or fits, and positively refuses to sleel) another night in
the house-neither will they describe the face. One clergyman after another
left the house in consequence of servants, governesses, &c., being frightened
nearly to death.
CORRESPONDENCE.
TO THE BDlTOR OF THE c, JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEA.RCH."
DBA.R SIR,-The question is ofteu Mked in what way the efl'ect of sight
~an be produced on the mind by non-substaptial apparitions. Perhaps the
following dream-experiences may point to the answer.
I waa travelling in the train one night about a year ago, a.nd went to sleep.
I dreamed I took out my watch and looked at it; the time was Gp.m., much
the time that I imagined it to be. I had not looked before going to sleep.
lJecausemy wrapscamo in theway of the watch-pocket. I then awoke,without
opening my eyes, enough to realise that my watch waa out of reach by my
bodily hands, but still saw the disc of the watch clearly before my eyes. I
knew it waa a dream impressioll, and aa I looked it turned blue, flickered, and
went out·. It WM larger than the real disc, as I recognised while looking
at it.
Another day I waa lying on my bed, in the daylight, and in the course
-of a short nap dreamed of a friend's face. I awoke, but the impression of
lIer face remained visibly before my eyes witll the red background of my
eyelids perceptible. I looked for some time (I suppose & moment or two),
when eomething like the head of a white mahl-stick, or a kn?bbed potato,
-<'.ame between me and the nose and mouth I WIUI looking at : and the whole
face faded out.
ls there any improba.bility in supposing that the efl'ect of & sufficiently
.strong mental inlpression of &llabsent person on the "isual nerve would be
,the same as ~L.'\t (If a dream, only longer-continued and not broken by the act
(If waking, which would naturally usually destroy a dream-image 1Of course
this accounts in no way for the impression, but it might explain why some
such telepathic phenomena. are visual and others purely mental, by difl'er-
ontiating tho pow.er of visualiaiDg p088csscd by the observers.-Yours
faithfully. M. BRAMSTON.
41, Dingwall-road, Croydon.
Febr'llanJ, 1886.
[The interesting and important point raised by Miss Brnmston will be
discussed at some length by Mr. Gurney in the forthcoming work on
.. Phantasms of the Living."-ED.]
Digitized by Google
.\pril. 18.'16.] JmJrllflll!f Societ,'I .101' PIJ!lcn;cal Rt'8enrcll. 263
srpPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Tile fo/UJwitl9 adtlitious/utre been made ,illce FebrllanJ.
[R] indicates that the book is for reference only.
~l BUROW (Rev. Capel, A.M.) A Lapse of Human Souls in a State of
Pre-existence, the only original Sin •.•.•••••••••..••...••..... L01Idon, 1766.
BRAID (James, M.R.C.S., &c.) Neurypnology; or, the Rationale
oi Nervous Sleep. (A tJlird oop,,)...•.•....••..•...•.•.........L01lI1I1It, 1843.
CAlIAGNET (L. A.) 'l'he Sanctuary of Spiritualism. From the French,
by M. Flinders Pearson. (A 8eCQJul copy' ..................London, N.D.*
DARLING (H. G., A.M., M.D.) Electrical Psychology. From the
Works of the Rev. J. B. DodsandProfeaaor,J. S. Grimes. London, 1851*
DAVIS (Andrew Jackllon) The Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
Neto York, 1851*
GUNVIL (Joseph) Saduciamus Triumphatus
4th. edit. (A sccolL(l copy.) London, 1726.
lliDDOCIC (Joseph W.) SomnoJismand Psycheism ...............Lmweln, 1849*
HALL (Spencer T.) Mesmerio Experiences ........................L<nwcn, 1845*
lht;DSLEY (Henry, M.D.) Natural Causes and Supernatural Seeminga,
LOfldon, 1886
El; MEDlCINA DIASTATICA (or Sympatheticall Mumie) From the works of
Dr. Theophr. Paracelsus by Andrea Tentzeliu8. From the Latin,
by Ferdinand Parkhurst ..........................................Lot,dOfL. 1653'f
Mind in Nature (Vol. I.) ..........................................Chicago, 1885-6t
MOOB (Major Edward. F.R.S.) Bealings Bells. (A BCCOfld copy)
Woodbridge, 1841
RJ PUPHUTS, Vol. VIII.if_
ASlliiAL lliGNETISlll: A Short Sketch of. By a Physician .........London, 1838
- - - - - - : A Plain and Rational Account of ...............London, 1700
BADELEY (John, M.D.) Narrative of Cure by Prince Hohenlohe. Lond07l, 1823
BAUMANS (Madame) Curative Results of Medical Somnambulism, London, 1849
Bt:sSETr (John Hughes, M.D.) The Mesmeric Mania of 1851. Edinburgh., 1851
Bo£nIlAAvE (Dr. Hennaal E.ay on The Virtue and Efficient CaU8e of
ltlagnetica1 Cures...............................................................London, 1i43
D.\VIR ~Andrew JMCklOn) The Philosophy of Special ProvidmCeB. A
Vi81on. 4th. edit•... ................................................. ..BoIton, U.S.A., 1850
ELLIOTSOS (Dr.) Mesmeriem in India. RtprinUd from th.c .. ZoUt"
London 1850
EvASS (John) The Univenal Medicine; or, the Virtues of the Magneti;;,u
or Antimoniall Cup................................................... .........London, 1642
JAHES (King of England, &c.) Dmmonologie, in forme of a dialogue
London, 1608
MAITLAl\'"D (Rev. S. R., D.D., F.R.S.) Illustrations and EnquirieerelatiDg
to ltIesmeri8U1. Part I....... ................................................London, 1849
MESMERI8M (The ZdinwrgA Rn,oitltl, Mr. Comewall Lewis and the Rev.
Dr. Maitland on) ................................................'" ........... London, 1851
Sro'g'~!ri:{' .~~~~~~~..~~~~..~~..?~..~~~~~~..~:...~~~~~ 1666
WOOD (Alexander, M.D.), What is MesmeriemL ..................Kdinbu,.,h. 1851
RJ PA¥PHLETS, Vol. IX.*-
A.'(IKAL MAGNET1SH: The Art, Practice, and Progress of that Useful
SCien:l!..............................................................................LondOll, 1791
BEC~~ UV:L~a~:n:~~i.~~..~:.~:~:~..~~~.~~:..~~~~.:.~~~~r:~~ 1722
BIRT (William Radcliff) Table-moving Popularly Explained ......London, 1853
1.I0u.~ (Rev. John Bovee) Lectures on the Philosophy of Mesmerism
NCfIIYork, N.D.
Digitized by Google
[BJ
[R]
[R]
[R]
164 Journal 0/ &tietv /0,. P8ychical Re8earch. [April. 1886.
PAMPBLBTII, (Continued)-
GILLARD (D.) The Grand PrimumMobile of Nature .........BII~ 180l
GODJ'UY (Rev. N. 8.)Table-moviDgtested and proved to be the result of
Satanic ...01. 4th edie........................................................£ondorl, 1853
MABTI5 (Jobii) AnimalMagnetiam Examined ...........................LoncIon, li90'
PJu.UIl (Horatio) Lectures on True and False Hypnotiam Lonoon, 1851·
ProLBlIIY'1 TetrabiblOl. From the Greek paraphrase of Proclua.
By J. H. Aahmand............................. .....................Lond01~, 18'l'2*'-
RJUCHBlfBA.CH (Baron Charlea von) Reaearchea on Magnetism,
Electricity, &c., in their relationa to Vital Force. From the
German, with l'reface and Notes, by John Aahburner, H.D.
(A tAW copy.) ...................................................... London, 1850·
TOOBA.LD (F. J.) Homea and Work in the Future Life. Part n.
London, 1886:
wm~:r:ith~.~~~~.~~~~~:.~~~~~.~~.C': 1801"
CULLDU (A.) MagnlStiame et Hypnotiame...........................Parn, 1886
D. PUYdoUil (A. H. J. Chutenet) Du Magn6tiame Animal ...Pam, 18Oj·
- - - - - Recherchea Phyaiologiquea lur I'Homme dana I'Etat
de Somnambulisme ...................................................Pam, 1811-fr
- - - - - H6moirea pour I8rvir a,l'Hiatoire eta. l'Etabliaaement du
Magn6tiame Animal, 3rt.I edit. (A leCotld copy) ...............Pari" 1820·
D'OLIVl:T (Fabre) Notiona lur Ie Sena de 1'0uie, et en particulier lur
la Gu4riaon de Rodolph. Guvel, aourd-muet de naiaaanca, Pam, 1811·
lbnmll (H.) Pr6cia Hiatorique des Faits rilatifa au HagnlStiame
Animal juaqu81 en Avril, 1781. Traduit de l'Allemand...London, 1781"
G.UTESUBBN, Daa UnbewUllte .......... .............................Leipzig, 1859
GOBWrrz (Dr. Hermann) ldi080mnambuliamul .....................Leipzig, 1851
lbInoNos, Von den Almungen und Visionen ...................·..Leipzig, 1771
ScBINDLBB (Dr. F. B.) Daa Magiache GeiatesIeben...............Brulau, 1857
WOLl'A.IlT(Dr. Karl 0.) Meameriamul .................................&riin, 1814
---Erlal1terungen zum Meameriamua ...........................Berlin, 1815
BIOLYCBNIUK I8U Lucama, &co &c. Auctioria et emendatiora omnia
curia aecundia Joan. Erneati Burggravi Neoat. Palatini
Franekeitt, 1611·
GocLBlm1s (Rod, H.D,) TractatUI NoVUI de Magnetica vulnerum
curatione, .te., &c• .............................................Frat&kforl, 16Ja--
KABBALA. DUUDATA ..................................................•Fraflliforl, 1677·
TBBATBUJI SYMPATHBTlCUM } ....................................Am.umam, 1661·
Exercitationea de Tabaco ....................................Am.tterdam. 1~
- - - - - de Manna ....................................Amaterdam. 1658"
• Pr.ented by Mrs. Charles KingIIey. t Preeented by the Editor.
::: PreMntecl by a member of the 80ciaty for P.ychical Relearch.
Digitized by Google
