{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marilyn_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Marilyn M Probable NDE3723","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marilyn M Probable NDE3723  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marilyn M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1718 Marilyn M Probable NDE 3723  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up in the car, my sister was moaning, I told her to be quiet and that everything would be ok. I blacked out and came to in the ambulance, feeling like I was lying on a pile of bricks. I begged my dad who, was in the ambulance with me, to tell me where my mom was. I blacked out again. I woke up again in the emergency room, hearing blood curdling screaming. I blacked out again and woke up going into surgery. I heard a nurse say 'she doesn't have much hair so we don't have to shave her'. I think my out of body experience was sometime during surgery. I was hovering over myself and saw five other people around me in white coats. They were just standing there. The light was behind me and I did not look into it. I felt very peaceful and secure in where I was. The next thing I remember was that I came to in a hospital room with my dad looking at me. He still would not say where my mother was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 30,1966'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I really never knew if I was clinically dead or not.  My family was involved in a car accident. We were hit by a drunk driver. My mother and sister were killed. I suffered from a ruptured intestine and two crushed vertebr'.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It seemed that each time I came to I was very alert, especially when I was hovering over myself and the five people in the white coats.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered in the fact that I was floating.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I believe I was in the tunnel, just not looking at the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at my back.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Floating in the air was pretty cool

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Safe, calm and secure. Full of wonderment, not knowing what was going on down there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that everything would be ok. Nothing really mattered.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No Why should they? I do feel special, because not everybody can say they have been through it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   People either do not believe or think I'm crazy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Floating above myself seemed pretty strange, and yes it is significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with very few people. They thought I was nuts and did not want to talk about it. I pretty much just keep it to myself.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was only 11.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real. I was very overwhelmed by the loss of my mother at 11 and pretty much viewed the NDE as insignificant at that time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It wasn't until I had heard of other people's experiences that I really came to grips with it. I have been more open to discuss it since I have matured.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Hypnotism might bring out more of it. I get deeply depressed sometimes. Maybe it is related.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marilyn_m_probable_nde.html