{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_claire_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie-Claire NDE 1094","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie-Claire NDE 1094  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie-Claire NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						594  Marie-Claire NDE  1094  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I made a suicide attempt by taking anti-depressants. In the intensive care unit, I found myself drawn to one of the room corners, being a spectator of all what was occurring. Then I entered a kind of tunnel lit by a terribly dazzling light. I hesitated a lot to go back, but someone with a very soft voice told me to do so.


It was at the same time, a marvelous and terrifying experience because nobody tried to explain anything to me. After ten days being in a coma, I awoke with a chaplain sitting beside me.  In fact, people expected me to die.


However, this changed all my life. My vision of death (now without fear) and always - go to the main points!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1981

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death Suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was without substance, floating up to the ceiling. I was only 'alive in my mind'; I had neither arms nor legs anymore.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Coma.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was neither time nor space any more, only feelings.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Light and very melodious sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     An ethereal and luminous tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Terribly dazzling but not painful nor unpleasant.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I have the impression to have changed of dimension - to be different from the others. To look at things in perspective became much easier for me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     As a clip which is on, very quickly, and in which some scenes are very clear and some others are fuzzy.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     On the other hand, I became a much more intuitive person.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   All occurred without any action from me, I was absolutely unable to change anything.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholique romaine

What is your religion now?      Moderate   non pratiquante dans les lieux consacrés

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     They were reinforced.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The fabulous, indescribable side of such an experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     More intuition and feelings, more sensitivity.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best side: fabulous wellbeing. The worst side: the thoughts and the look from others, powerlessness of the medical staff.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mixed reactions. I don’t speak easily about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was too beautiful! Now, I am simply waiting for my hour, but with joy and serenity.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The medical staff attitude should be tackled.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_claire_nde.html