{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie S Possible NDE 7835","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie S Possible NDE 7835  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4052 Marie S Possible NDE 7835  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On April 14 2015, I had to have an operation under general anesthesia for a fractured wrist. I returned to the operating room at the end of my journey. I have no idea the precise hour of the operation. I was in a great deal of pain and I didn’t have a watch.  During the procedure, an extraordinary thing happened. 

In the distance I saw a light, and I went back into the Light. I don’t remember having gone through a tunnel.  The light was a very intensely bright, but not blinding, light. I could hear sublime music that sounded like love songs. I knew at that moment that I am not alone in the world.  I felt an unconditional and infinite love. I had never felt so bathed in love and I had never felt anything like that since.

I was immersed in this ocean of love and an inexpressible joy rose in my heart.  There are not big enough words to explain my happiness.

I felt completely understood, fulfilled, and loved just as I am.  I was so far from the cares and worries of this earth!

I was no longer aware of time or space, but of being, of always having been present.

I understood that I am part of this light; that I am eternal.

I still had a body, but I was not my physical body.  I was floating. The feeling of peace and abundance was pervasive.

I met some beings of love.  I could not see them, but I felt their presence.  They were made of light.  They told me that I was there to show me that there is something to believe in after death.

I asked to see my father, but they told me 'No' in a categorically firm and loving way.  I continued to ask; I even begged to see him, or at least perceive him in some way.  But the response was still a loving 'No, not now.  It is not your time, and you will come back.' I have never experienced anything as powerful or as clear.

I found myself back in my body, I had no pain coming back to my body. When I awoke, I cried because I didn’t get to see my father, but at the same time I was filled with joy at having been in this light; feeling all that love and kindness.

The mixture of sadness and joy is difficult to explain, but I know that I was privileged to have had this experience.  It will never leave me, and I wish everyone could experience it. After this experience, I see life and things differently.  It was a strong internal experience that transformed me. I am more spiritual.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  14 avril 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.     While under general anesthesia.      Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Same

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don’t know exactly.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I do not think it changed.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not think it changed.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don’t recall going through a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very intense, bright light, but not blinding - nothing like the lights on earth.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Nothing like Earth, it is a place made of light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       An emotion of love, loving kindness, and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Catholique non pratiquante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Catholique non pratiquante

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It reinforced my beliefs and spirituality.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw some beings of light, but there were no voices, instead I spoke with them through telepathy.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Closer to others.     Closer to others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have never wanted to find the right words more unfortunately I can’t find them.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several weeks later, I told my older sister, and she was glad that I had this experience and that I lived, and that I had the opportunity to take such a trip.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of NDEs before, but nothing else.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It had nothing to do with a dream or a hallucination.  It was very intense and highly emotional compared to what we know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My feelings have not changed about this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_s_possible_nde.html