{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_db_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie DB NDE 8219","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie DB NDE 8219  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie DB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4297 Marie DB NDE 8219  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On December 13, 2012, I was preparing for Christmas. I was stressed, and it was when exiting a shop that the accident happened. I stepped into the crosswalk and started dashing across the street, when I was hit by a motor scooter. I have no memory of this at all, a total void. I know the facts only from the police report.  

  I was hit by this scooter and fell into a coma. It was at the intensive care unit that I saw myself leaving my body through the top of my head. I was looking at myself from about two meters above my hospital bed. I could see my body attached to a bunch of lines connected to some machines. I knew that it was me, but I was somebody else. It is difficult to explain, like a kind of doubling up. It was me without being me.  

  Then I saw my life scrolling past. I saw only very pleasant times and I passed by that very quickly. It was more like feeling than seeing. It was like a kind of teleportation at incredible speed. I think of where I was as a tunnel because it was round and everything was dark. I sensed that at the end there was a light that was immensely beautiful, filled with love and serenity. It was just a sensation but a very powerful one, like knowing there was a wonderful world at the end of the tunnel.  

  In a split second, I entered this light. Then I became this light of sparkling brightness. I saw the light, but I also was the light. I was a kind of energy filled with LOVE, PROTECTION AND KNOWLEDGE. I can access this powerful sensation even now. Whenever I try to speak about it, the feeling is overwhelming.  I felt that I was surrounded by hierarchies of angels!  They were sending me INFINITE LOVE, IMMENSE PROTECTION AND THEIR KNOWLEDGE. The LOVE was more powerful than anything I had ever felt before, even though I am a passionate sort of person.  The angelic crowd became even larger. I sensed that there were great Spirits surrounding me and sending me their knowledge. The most powerful spirits were in the forefront. They were very ancient consciousnesses, who taught a kind of universal cabalistic knowledge. They taught me the divine and universal knowledge that I, an earthly human, was immensely important to them.   

  I realized that I was in another world. I asked them who they were.   

  There, time was very long. My great-grandmother and great-grandfather appeared on my right. I hardly knew them, as they had passed away when I was a child. But, there they were, holding hands! They sent me even more LOVE. It was ecstasy!  

  I asked them where my sister was. (My sister had committed suicide twenty-seven years ago.) They all left for a few moments and then reappeared. My great-grandparents let go of each other's hands. Behind them and very far away, I saw a sparkling light with something like wings. I knew that this was my sister, even though I couldn't exactly see her. All around her, there was the same love that I felt surrounding me.

  She also was surrounded by a dark circle of angelic hierarchies. My great-grandparents told me that she had needed to go through this, but that now she was finally ready to come help members of her family. [[[I didn't mean to make a paragraph here, but I can't get it to go away.]]]]  Then I grew immensely large with huge wings that starting to emerge from me. Like a phoenix, I was ready to fly away! This sensation was not only impressive but was extraordinary pleasant. Then these wings very rapidly retracted back into me. At that point I travelled all the way back to earth, into the ICU, and down I fell into the shell of my body.   

  I woke up in intensive care without knowing who I was and why I was there. Nearby there was an old man groaning. This is where my nightmare began, because certain members of the medical community were hostile to me. I learned later on, that this medical community had thought that my cranial trauma had been so serious that there would be no chance I could return to consciousness. They did not like to be proved wrong and took it out on me, telling me to just be quiet and more.   

  Today I realize that I had an extraordinary experience. Now I have this certitude—that death doesn't exist because we when we leave this world, we go to a new world of love.  

  I feel that they made me come back because I still have things to do in this life. Today I'm thankful to them that they were there. I'm happy and I thank 'heaven' for bringing me so much JOY!  

  But there is another certitude— that the awareness of the French medical community has to be awakened, absolutely. They still consider me a "nut" when I talk about my experience. What I needed when I woke up from such an experience was somebody to listen to me. Not somebody to drug me with anti-depressants so as to prevent me from thinking about the experience.  What I needed, they had no idea about.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  13.12.12

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Traffic accident. I was hit by a scooter while crossing  the street.   I fell on my head and lost consciousness due to serious head trauma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   This sensation of being exceptional and filled with knowledge, I never felt that in my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At each moment during this experience, I felt an extreme lucidity. Today, 4 years after my accident, I have more and more the impression that this experience was the most extraordinary one of my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     When I asked them who they were, this seemed a very long time to me. When I asked where my sister was, a certain time went by, but it was mostly because they left me alone during those moments.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This is not really at the level of sight, as the feelings are more important than what I saw.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound, it was more like vibrations; even when they talked to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     It kind of like teleportation. Yes. You could call it a tunnel, but it was more like a sensation of passing into another dimension. It was a vertical, dark passage. I was leaving in this vertical passage which was guiding me towards the sparkling light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was attracted by this sparkling light which was vibrating Love and protection.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Yes, it was like a different inexplicable dimension, but very pleasant.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was invaded by a great feeling of love, protection, and knowledge.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I had the impression that they were initiating me by transmitted their universal knowledge.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.     When I left through this passage, I saw my life scrolling without really remembering it.  But there's the certitude that it was about very pleasant moments of my life.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future.     They transmitted to me events of the future, in particular about our religions.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   I'm a believer but didn't practice Catholicism regularly.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes.     I have faith in God and Jesus. I will never convert myself, but I'm more in harmony today with Jewish persons as they have a more open mind about that.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic.   I believe in God as HOLY SPIRIT. Today my faith is a certitude, but I am not able anymore to identify with my basic religion.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Since then, I feel the need to get closer to practicing Jewish persons without wanting to convert myself. Above all, I love THE HOLY SPIRIT, the messenger of God.  This love is  more in a spiritual sense, rather than religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     I studied  Kabbalah and got closer to Jewish people. They are all very open about life after life. To whom can you speak to about this subject, if not with religious people? So I went to see the Catholic priests. They threw me out of their church, asserting that GOD will not make you experience this kind of thing.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I had a sensation of being surrounded with very ancient beings or consciousnesses, who transmitted their Love and knowledge to me. I physically saw my great-grandparents, and my sister who was a sparkling light. It was there that they talked to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   These consciousnesses were linked with all our religious guides and prophets. They were ONE in THE HOLY SPIRIT. I only saw my great-grandparents physically, like I saw them when I was a child. They held hands. It's a memory that I had completely forgotten, as they passed when I was 7 for my great-grandmother, and 9 for my great-grandfather. It's a memory that came back to me since the experience that they often held hands.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Difficult to explain.  There are several places or levels of evolution. For example, my sister was not in the same place that  I was.  It was like we were in our own  solar systems; I and my grandparents were on one, and my sister evolved in another one.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     All those Consciousnesses that I felt were 'ONE' with all  intelligence and the universal knowledge. This  means one with  GOD, the SEVENTH SENSE.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That churches will transform into temples, and that the religions of God will pray at the same place.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Those who will not find awareness of love and compassion will suffer a lot.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes.     Today, this experience is for me an evidence that death doesn't exist.  I was aware that I was in the world of the dead, and that my consciousness was still living outside of my body.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Every human being has a mission that it must endeavor to discover all along it's life; and that death is a break to go back to make an evolution.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Those who will not find awareness of love and compassion will suffer a lot.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Over there, it's love which is ruling. They are all together in harmony; It's the only energy that will save people on earth.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I'm no more the same person. I have another personality and another life. I love solitude as I learned to respect myself before thinking about others or what moved me away from many persons of my surroundings; but I met other persons fitting in better with my new life. I'm still looking for my new path

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Maybe this is also connected to my head injury? At least my doctors are claiming this.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's more feeling rather than being explained. Dialog is no dialog, but a kind of telepathy. It's the sensations and feelings being tenfold, that we don't feel in your life.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  So powerful is this experience, that it is engraved forever.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sense the state of consciousness of a person, if he/she has good or bad intentions or is sick or depressed.  I can help him/her.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have the impression of having a mission and that those consciousnesses from over there are still guiding me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was talking about my experience upon waking in the hospital.  Tthey considered it as being a delirium. The priests had been unpleasant; I studied Kabbalah and I could more freely talk about it. But with my old friends it's now difficult; we don't talk anymore. For two years I didn't talk about it anymore. Then I created a support group and today I'm at CEPPI in Nice, which is a Center of  studies for parapsychology and unexplained phenomena.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard much talking about the book 'Life after Life' which made a large impression when it came out, but I never had read. Nevertheless, it was in my bookcase, as my sister gave it to me. But I had no influence on this subject. On the contrary, as my sister killed herself believing perfectly well that she knew where she was going.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The more time went by, the more it was a reality for me, as I still could feel their love.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It changed my life and the people I surround myself with.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Questions concerning listening in hospitals:  For example  Would you like to talk about this experience with the medical community?  As the trauma is more related with the lack of listening, which we experience about our experiences, about the disdain of doctors when we want to broach the subject, than about the experience itself. Thank you for your understanding and this questionnaire.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_db_nde.html