{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie C NDE 3784","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie C NDE 3784  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1805 Marie C NDE 3784  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was carrying a friend on my shoulders; we were playing games in the town's municipal swimming pool. My friend panicked and submerged me under the water. She got out before she drowned. As for me, they didn't rescue me right away, only when somebody noticed that I was floating in the water.

Then someone grabbed me and got me and started CPR.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  À l'adolescence.

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Quasi noyade ncessitant une réanimation.  Near drowning. When they found me, I was floating in the water. They grabbed me and began CPR.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I lost consciousness. I was floating in the water and I called out to my sister telepathically. I saw where she was sitting at the edge of the pool and I asked her to signal to someone that I was missing and that they should locate me.  Right after I came to (after CPR) my thoughts were concentrating on the color blue. I was telling myself: 'It's really beautiful here. I have never seen a blue as beautiful as this.' Then I saw faces appearing in the blue sky and asked myself what these people were doing in my sky. It was the people witnessing the accident who were standing above me and who I saw appear one after the other.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time, no space. When I became conscious again, I confused the two worlds for a good long while. I was no longer certain of what was the true reality. Like waking from a dream. But this was a conscious lucid dream.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seeing the color blue differently from the way one sees it with one's eyes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An intense blue light with a texture that is different from what emanates from the sky. The impression that I was a part of this light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Une dimension de lumière.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sudden understanding of the situation and what I had to do about it. Communicating telepathically with my sister.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Quest for a universal symbol for all, beyond dogmatic religions.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Quest for a universal symbol for all, beyond dogmatic religions.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Capability to direct new states of consciousness.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Difficulty being in relationship with bad, fake or hypocritical people since I know who they are.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   A state of complete consciousness. (Presence of a silence full of serenity.)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Very precise knowledge of other people's thoughts. Able to know their real intentions. Prophetic dreams. Telepathy with those close to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The all-enveloping blue light, which I can still access and connect with.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    We have spoken a lot about the accident. But it wasn't until later, when I was an adult, that I realized I'd had an NDE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Only around 1990, when the media began focusing on it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The impression of no longer being part of this world, and a part of me did not return from the other world, it remained there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am still finding out how much my life has taken a different direction since that experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Other important accidents threatened my life. 1980 - I was hit by a car and lost consciousness for a few seconds. I knew right then I had the choice to die or to stay in this life and it was for me to decide. I decided to return.  1999, 2005 and 2007 - Three serious car accidents when the airbags deployed and the cars were totaled. In all of the accidents there was a fraction of a second where I was above it all watching. Acceptance to allow things to happen.  I believe my near-drowning experience permitted me to remain close to my body, to direct my ability to leave my body when physical trauma was too great to bear.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I no longer fear death. It is not pain but a liberation from the weight of the physical world. One can remove oneself from the law of terrestrial attraction in order to liberate oneself from the stresses of everyday life, stress which includes emotions that keep us bound here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_c_nde.html