{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_c_nde_5117.html","mytitle":"Marie C NDE 5117","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie C NDE 5117  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2714 Marie C NDE 5117  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was eight and a half years old and was sick with viral hepatitis. During the first days of the illness, I was in a kind of a coma. I was outside of my body, watching myself from above. I saw myself lying in my bed, my arms down by my side. I felt so soothed - very calm and light. When I stopped watching myself 'sleeping,' I saw in front of me a very bright corridor without walls. It was a pale white at the beginning and it became brighter and brighter towards the end. As I went into the tunnel, I felt as if I were pushing my way through light, fluffy cotton. I felt wonderful! Suddenly I felt myself falling back into my body.

My poor mother was so scared by what she had seen happening with me. From her point of view, I went from just lying on the bed to, at some point, having my eyes wide open and rolled back into my head. She had shaken me, but I hadn't responded. She could not get me to answer her when she called me, either.

Since then, I have had flashes of insight about the future. At first, I did not understand what I was seeing. But, over the years, as I have discovered my psychic abilities, my ability to have insight into the future was confirmed to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Juillet 1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was very ill and had gone into a kind of a coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I had normal consciousness and alertness most of the time, and my highest level of consciousness was when I was above myself, looking down at my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When was looking down at my body from above.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The space was cotton-like and limitless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Of the things around me, there was no limit to what I could see; and I had much brighter, farther and clearer vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing became muffled, as if I were wrapped in cotton.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A cotton-like white tunnel with no walls.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was light all around me. At the end of the tunnel, the light was sharpest.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very light, and enveloped in softness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Much later, with the development of my psychic abilities, and also the death of my husband, I have become very aware that I was guided by the divine.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Much later, with the development of my psychic abilities, and also the death of my husband, I have become very aware that I was guided by the divine.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     From that time on, my psychic abilities have unfolded. I was not really aware of having these abilities until a psychic showed me that I had them. Over time, I have been having more and more premonitory feelings, flashes, and dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Feeling that I was floating above my body was especially meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    For forty-five years. And I have shared with psychics who have understood perfectly - particularly one of them, who had been through the same experience herself.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      At first I thought that the experience was probably not real. Being so young, I had never heard of any kind of paranormal phenomena, such as NDEs. But the experience seemed important, and it always remained in my memory.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     How I view it now is that my experience was definitely real. Now that I know what an NDE is, I can see that my feelings and memories are the same as, or similar to, those of a lot of the other people who have lived through the same thing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Maybe when I practiced sophrology (relaxation and awareness techniques) in preparation for (and during) childbirth, I felt as if I were floating in a cloud with my baby inside me - same softness, same light - but no feeling of leaving my body.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like more questions about the inner feelings one has during the experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_c_nde_5117.html