{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marianna_nde_OBE456.html","mytitle":"Marianna NDE 20456","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marianna NDE 20456  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marianna NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						434  Marianna NDE  20456  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was having an ectopic pregnancy and had to undergo major surgery, I was told that I had two minutes to half an hour to survive. As two doctors met me in the surgery, I remember at the time thinking this is it. I am not going to recover from this, as the pain was unbearable.


I remember floating towards a bright light, I was calm and I wanted to go towards it, I was aware that I had my grandparents waiting for me on the other side, and I was very, very calm. I heard a female voice. She told me that it wasn't my time and that I had to go back. I was disappointed. The next thing I remember was another female voice, that of the nurse, telling me it was time to wake up. There was also another nurse that came up to her and asked if I was all right, the nurse informed her colleague that I was.


I found out later that it was more serious than they had thought at the time and that I had to have one tube removed and that I had to be revived as my blood pressure was very low.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death See account.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was journeying in my body I wasn't out of it, well that how it felt.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was aware of everything.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I didn't see anyone, but I heard a voice and was aware of people being there.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a bright light the sort of light that you experience when you are in a tunnel and coming out the other side.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There was no difference.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Tearful, fearful, apprehensive, disappointed.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It felt spiritual, I believed in Heaven and God at the time, but was not as certain as I am now.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It changed my outlook on life. Life is precious; you only get one chance at it. I also go to church more so than before.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The shock of having that experience, coming out of it and learning from it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my mom, it was very emotional because of the fact that this was life threatening anyway.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      A couple of the questions seem to duplicate themselves, but other than that they are very good questions because they make you explain them better, as you have to recall the emotion you felt at the time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marianna_nde_OBE456.html