{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie B NDE 3794","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie B NDE 3794  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1775 Marie B NDE 3794  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was young. I met a stranger, a guy at a bar who was giving me a ride home. As we got a few blocks from my house, he slowed down to park in a dark secluded park like area to rape me I figured. I had my big purse and some books with me. As he started to slow down, I quickly threw my things out the opened door and just as I jumped out, he put his foot on the gas pedal and speeded up. I flew out the door and landed very hard in the road hitting my head hard. 

Instantly, I felt myself rising up into the air and gazing down below at my body. It grossed me out, as I must have been having a seizure. As I was floating above my body, I saw my body contort and my hands were like shaking and wiggling in a spastic way. I immediately felt REVULSION to that body and thought 'how grotesque'. I felt myself going higher up away from my body and I thought to myself, 'Oh no, I don't want to die now - my father and my dog need me.' At that point, I could not feel my body at all - just was viewing it from above. Slowly I felt myself 'coming down' and then I felt pins and needles in my hands and arms up to my elbows.

I got up from the road and went to a house across the street and they called the police for me who then took me to the hospital even though I said I felt fine. They said I should be checked out anyway. At the hospital, the doctor took some instrument and scraped it across the bottom of my feet. He said I was unconscious at the point of impact. I insisted that no I was wide-awake. We argued back and forth. I guess my body was unconscious, but my spirit was fully awake. 

Years later, whenever I began to doubt the existence of the spirit after death, I would think back on this experience and believe again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1966

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentCriminal attackDirect head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was about to get raped and so fled from it, foolishly jumping out the car door.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I guess I would say immediately.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I guess I would say immediately.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt overwhelming distaste for this 'ugly gross body'. I felt like I wanted no part of it, yet I knew my dad and my dog needed me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Gave me more proof that we live after death. Has helped me greatly in life.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Gave me more proof that we live after death. Has helped me greatly in life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I just felt very detached like my body was just a lump of clay that I was using. It was the first time I had proof that I was not 'just' my body. I had believed in spiritual things before this, but this was the first time I had proof.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was so long ago I don't remember much, but I doubt I told anyone until many years later and then only a couple friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it was real because I was a witness to it. Then the doctor saying I was unconscious, I knew I was awake the whole time! I saw it and I felt very detached from my body like, 'What is THIS thing convulsing on the ground? How grotesque,' I thought. I could not feel my hands or body as this was going on, until I had the thought that I didn't want to die, then I felt like I was 'coming down' and I could at first feel pins and needles in my hands, and then I could feel them like I normally would.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above I guess. It was real and I never ever forgot it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_b_nde.html