{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marie_nde.html","mytitle":"Marie NDE 169","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marie NDE 169  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Marie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						611  Marie NDE  169  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


[On the morning of September 11, 2000], I slipped on wet concrete outside my patio and fell into a deep concussion. I was in an altered state for about two hours before anyone came to my aid. While I was in an altered state, I felt myself being shown flashes of dead people and thinking of helping them. I couldn't reach any of them because they were all in two separate cages. I then woke up and my watch was stopped at 8:56am, which was the time the World Trade Center towers were hit [Wikipedia places the time of the first hit between 8.45-8.50am]. I feel as though someone was trying to tell me what was coming to America. Being Native American, I've felt a closeness to the earth and its senses ever since this experience.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    9/11/2000

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Concussion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  It felt real.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Watch stopped...unaware of surroundings when I woke.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Lots of metal and clashes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     New York.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Horror.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Premonition.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     [see narrative]

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     An awakening of the soul.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I'm native to this land.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Only bad.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Watch your step.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     Filled in all my details surrounding my supernatural experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Maybe you should block it from psych wards.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marie_nde.html