{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5282","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n30_jul_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N30 July 1886","mylang":"de"}
110. XXXo-YOL. II.
JOURNAL
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH~
S_ApeoeIdN.. .. ••
.......01 CooDCiI •• ••
....of tile Gellllnl )(M&IDI •• .•
l'IIaa..... of the Ll'iDc •• .. ••
c.........."'.LIienr1 CaIUd'tee
JIr......_ •• •• •• •• ••
NEW ASSOCIATES.
Eu.JOT, TuB HotC. MRS., The Deanery, Clifton, Bristol.
P"O.
..:
•••
.. Me
•••7
.. W
lI.uu.AlfD, HaBY, Authors' Club, 19, West 24th Street, New York"
U.S.A.
HILL, W. 8oo'lT, 41, Manor Place, Edinburgh.
McCBBBNBY, MRS. JOSEPH HoRY, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
.At a meeting of the Council, held on the 5th inat., the President in
the chair, the following members were also present :-Profesaor
Barrett, Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, C. C. M8088eY,
F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and Henaleigh
Wedgwood.
The Minutes of the previous meeting were read, and signed as
correct.
Four new Associates, whoae names and addresses are given above,.
were elected.
In accordance with his request, it was agreed that the name of Dr.
Wyld slJould be transferred from the list of Members to that of
.Associates.
One present to the Library was on the table, which is acknowledged
in the Supplementary Catalogue. A vote of thanks was passed to the·
donor.
A vote of tha.nks was also passed to the anonymous donor of £10·
towards the cost of the Journal.
The cash account for the preceding month was presented in the.
usual form.
The next meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the 30~
of July, at 4.30 p.m.
x
Digitized by Google
838 Jour.' oj &eietg for P"cAiMl JlaMrcI,. [J~. 18.
REPORT OJ' THE GENERAL MEETING•
.
A General Meeting of the 8eciety was held on the evening of
Monday, July 5th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists,
Suft'olk Street, Pall Mall.
I • The' President of th8 SOciety, Profeuor Balfour Ste~ F.R.S.,
Occupied the chair. He invited Mr. C. C. Masaey to read a Paper
on "The Poaibilities of Mal-Obaervation in Relation to Evidence for
the Phenomena of Spiritaaliltm." The paper will appear at length in
the forthcoming Part of the P~ing., and only an abstract of tbt-
argument is here.given.
Adverting to the reference of the phenomena in question to con·
juring, Mr. Massey considered that there were certain broad and
essential distinctions between the two cases as regards the faculty of ob-
servation. The causes of mal-observation when a design to induce it may
be assumed were mainly three-{1) Uncertainty as to the precise thq
to be observed; (2) Defective ph,aioal conditions of observation; (3)
Occasions of distraction of attention. Apart from confederates and
artificial appliances, every conjurer was dependent upon one or more of
these for his opportunity. At meMuinistic sittings they all could be,
and frequently were, excluded. With this view the investigator
could take all the arrangements t.into his own hands, reducing the
medium to the m,,,w'I.mof the activity upon which 110 conjurer must
depend to mask his proceedings, thus reversing one esaential relation of
nch 110 performer to his spectator. mustrative cases--described as only
aamples from 110 bulk-were cited at length from several publiabed re-
ports, including the reader's own experience. Reference was made to
the position adopted by Mrs. Sidgwick in the June number of the
Journal, that evidence for these phenomena was vitiatecl by the
necessity for continuous observatiOll.. In this view, not only were im·
portant facts lost for observation, but evidence might contain state-
ments of non-existent facts, it being part of the juggler's art to induce
a false appearance of them. But (Mr. Massey contended) this positive
error could only belong to honest statements when the latter were of a
general character, omitting to ditlcriminate the true perceptive el~
ments of 110 composite observation, and giving only a mental remit in
place of testimony of the senses. Except under conditions which could
have no general application to theee phenomena, if the conditions of
observation were physically easy, individual acts of perception were not
fallible, and the question whether they had in fact been performed could
be settled by the testimony of a veracious witness, which would aI.,a1'
betray ita own defects by absence of particularity. On theother hmd,
the nsgestion ofpositive mal-observation was excluded by particularity
of statement. As to mere failure of observation of important facta. it
Digitized by Google
339
;'WIIS always necessary to conSider in the partieular case what were the
nature and dimensions of any fact that could affect the result, in order
to judge of the possibility of its eluding the senses and nund of the
witness. This was not a question to be disposed of by reference to the
general instability of attention in prolonged obserYations ; the
degree of mental pre-occupation to be induced by the conjurer in the
witness was measurable by the physicalacts the conjurer must perform
in the circumstances of the case. I.n conditions well arranged by the
observers, as in many of the recorded.experiments, these acts would be
extremely obtrusive, and often very complicated-whereas the prepara-
tions were expressly designed to limit observation to their exclusion,
and one only need be excluded. In other cases the physical character
of the phenomenon described was such as to make the suggestion of •
,conjurer's &gency inappropriate upon even the largest admissible suppo-
sitions of imperfect observation-as when a littl~ table disappeared
bodQyand afterwards descended ,~,.full yie\\" from the ceiling in
a .private room, as Zollner and the medium were sitting side by side,
or as when Mr. Massey himself had a fallen chair, of which he had
a clear view, picked up and depositetl at his side by invisible agency at
his request, when the medium was sittingfive feet off from it.
But Mr. Massey did not admit that exceptiona~ manifestations or
conditions were essential to guarantee observation, and he adduced an
experience of his ownand Mr. Rodeu.Noel's in Eglintoll's slate-writing~
to illustrate the extent of the claim he made for average powers of
observation.
He then criticised an account giv.en by Mrs. Sidgwick, at a recent
meeting of the Society, of a slate-writing performance of an amateur
oonjarer, in which her own and a. fr¥tnd's observation was effectually
ba.tIled. He referred to it in order Wshow that the supposed observ..
tions were not stated with the particularity necessary to constitute even
apparently good evidence, and could therefore raise no presumption
against other evidence which on the face of it was free from defect.
He proceeded to answel' Mrs. Sidgwick's view that the medium had
an advantage over the avowed conj~r in his "privilege o~ failure,"
and also urged that. the mdClium had a far severer ordeal of ill.vestip-
tion to .pass through than any conjurer. He then dealt with some
genera.l objections to the eviden~. auch as detected trickery, the
absence of tests which would dispense with any continuous observation
in the presence of the medium, and the failure of some investigators to
obtain any satisfactory evidence at all. He Pointed out that such
failures had been presupposed by the Society at the outset, as the phe-
3lomena had notthe scientific character of being reproducible for any
.and'every one. The conjuring tJ!eory was, totally inadequate to the
x 2
. 1.··1' . . . . "
Digitized by-GOOgle
340 JOllrluzl qf 8oc~t!l.for P8!1cMcai Bemll·ch. (J'air. 1888;
magnitude and duration of the experience now accumulated. Conjurers
themselve! who had sat with mediums had come away without dis·
coVering trickery, and the letter recently published in Lig1&t, from the
ama.teur conjurer, Dr. HcrscheU' to Mr. Eglinton, was a striking
testimony to the genuine character of "autography.n
'The Society and its investigators should approach the subject with
some regal'll to the psychicaJ conditions which the hypothesis of medium·
ship involved, and not with the dominating idea' of' conjuring, though
every investigator ought to be adequately impresSed with the necessity
of strict and close observation and exact statements. It should be con·
sidered that telepathy might imply much more than consciousness would
reveal, and that the psychical intluence of mental dispositions might be
110 real condition in the production of the phenomenA. Mr. Massey COD'
eluded by recommending the appomtment of a committee to examine
and report upon the existing evidence for "autography,n but urged
that such a committee should not be composed of those who would
make an indiscriminate application of Mrs. Sidgwick's extreme pre-
sumption against observation, as in that case only a foregone negative
conclusion was to be expected. ;
In inviting discussion, the President said that Professor Sidgwick's
remarks, which Mr. Massey had quoted, had done good if they had
called forth such a paper as that which had just been heard.
The Rev. W. Stainton Moses said that he thought we must all feel
deeply indebted to Mr. Massey for the able, temperate, and closely-
reasoned paper which he had read to us. Referring to the June
number of the Society's Journal, he remarked that some had thought
that sufficient notice had not been taken of Mr. Eglinton j but that
reproach could now no longer be made. At the same time, he wished
to enter his protest against what he considered the unfair tone and
style of the article in the Journal, and generally of the manner in
which the evidence had been treated. Itwas not of hopeful augury for
the usefulness of the Committee proposed by Mr. Massey.' He had
even been led to ask himself whether Spiritualists could be of any
further use-if indeed they had been of any-within the Society if
that article was to be taken as an expression of the Society's opinion.
He hoped it would be disowned as the action of the Society; and he
had been glad to hear, since he caine into the room, that they were to
look on it only as an expression of individual opinion, and that it did
not commit those who, like himself, differed from it, to its lines. He
hoped to hear this view confirmed from the chair, for, until disavowed,"
• As ihe Society has DO coUective voice in lIuch matters, it is Dot neceesary.
or tmm possible, that any view expl'e8ll8Cl by an individual member of it sbould
be .. disavowed." It Will be remembered that even in the cue of paJMlll
published in the Procuding., .. the ~D8ibi1ity for both facta and reaaoDlDgI
reata entirely with their autbors."-ED.
Digitized by Google
.Tall', 1886.]
the paper in question will be held by many to embody the views
held by the leaders of the Society for Psychical Research, and therefore
of the Society itself.
To show that these things did not rest on Mr. Eglinton's shoulders
alone, he (Mr. St&iuton Moses) would like to call attention to an
example in his own experience, where writing was done on a slate in a
locked cupboard of his own, under circumstances which absolutely
convinced him of the reality of the phenomenon. This occurred at an
important crisis in his life, in harmonious connection with a variety of
other phenomena whicb forced him, as a logical necessity, to accept the
Spiritnalist hypothesis. from which he had never since wavered.
Dr. Wyld felt with Mr. Stainton Moses, that Mrs. Sidgwick, in the
remarks that had been referred to, had not dealt with the subject of slate-
writing in a satisfactory wanner. The cases which sbe had reviewed
were recorded by ladies and gentlemen of undoubted veracity, and of
fally average intelligence, and some of them were worthy of the closest
attention; yet Mrs. Sidgwick dismissed tbe whole evidence in these
words, "I have now no hesitation in attributing the performances
to clever conjuring." Mrs. Sidgwick had no pretensions to being a
conjurer; and she was perfectly well aware that conjurers had
given a verdict the reverse of her own, because tbeir written and
signed testimony had during these eight or ten years appeared almost
continuously in print, in the pages of the Spiritualistic journals; and
Dr. Wyld therefore thought that he did not speak discourteously in
characterising Mrs. Sidgwick's view of the whole case as an evidence
of excessive credulity on ber part, in relation to her powers of judgment
in occult matters.
Dr. Wyld then described two experiments observed by himself,
one with Mr. Eglinton and the other with Dr. Slade, which he
regarded as affording absolutely incontrovertible evidence as to occult
slate-writing.
The experiment with Eglinton was as follows: it occurred early
in the year 1884. A bit of slate pencil being placed between two
slates which were previously examined, he and Eglinton tben placed
their hands on the top of the upper slate as it lay on the table.
Immediately tbe sounds of writing were heard, and these having ceased.
Dr. Wyld and Eglinton examined the slates and found one of tbem
covered with fine clear writing from the top to the bottom of tbe slate
the writing being in reply to a question they bad put regarding a dis-
puted matter. Finding that the last sentence was unfinished, Eglinton
took another slate wbicb Dr. Wyld examined, and pressing this against
the under aide of the flap of the table,Eglinton asked Dr. Wyld also to
press it close to the table,which he did, wbereupon the sounda of writin~
Digitized by Google
" ' \ ' " ' . \
Journal of &cietv .fM' PqcAitJlll ~~ [lair. 18118."
were again distinctly audible; and on examining the slate it was found
alaO covered with fine writing from top to bottom,and the last sentence
carried round the four sides of the frame of the slate. The reply to the'
question put was clear and sensible, and quite to the point.
The writing on the two'slates seemed to occupy about two minutes,
but on copying this writing afterwarda, Dr. Wyld found that the
operation occupied twenty minutes of quick writing. '
These two slates were, before the 6Xperiment, examined by Dr. Wyld,
and he never lost sight of them during the experiment for one second,
and he maintains 'that this experiment was entirely outside the range
of conjuring, and that it demonstrated occult slate-writing.
The second experiment was with Slade. Dr. Wyld had many
e;Jtperiments with Slade, but the experiment now to be described was &
c:rucial one.
He sat with Slade in daylight, no visitor being in the room except
himself. He having taken up a alate from a pile of slates on & table
said, "I wish this experiment to be perfect and therefore you must
not touch this slate from beginning to end of the experiment, not even
with the tip of your finger, because if you did so, some ignorant person
might say that you produced the writing by sleight of hand,"
Slade sat about four feet from Dr. Wyld at the opposite side of &
table, but some distance from the table, and Dr. Wyld having first
examined both sides of the slate, and found it a new dusty slate, placed
a crumb of pencil on the table; he then covered the pencil with the slate
and pressed the slate to the table with his elbow, while he seized Slade's
two feet with his two feet, and his two hands with his two hands, and
then said "Now write."
Immediately the sound of writibg occurred,and this having ceased,
Dr. Wyld pushed Slade's hands away, and lifting the slate from the
table, found a message written in dusty slate pencil writing, containing
five Christian family names and a message concerning a family matter
of importance. This experiment was entirely beyond the range of
conjuring; and of occult slate-writing Dr. Wyld has no more doubt
than he has of his own existence.
Mr. F. Podmore then said that he would give an account of &
recent slate-writing experiment w~"h he had witnessed. Mr. Z., a
conjurer, recently gave a slate-writing seance to Mr. A. Podmore, at
which Mr. F. Podmore was permitted to be present. Mr. Z. began by
giving Mr. A. Podmore a double-slate with Bramah lock, to examine.
Mr. A. Podmore satisfied himself that there was no trickery connected
with tile slate. He then, at Mr. Z.'s request, put some small pieces of
coloured chalk into the slate and locked it, putting the key in his
pocket. Mr. A. Podmore clearly understood that he had to watch this
Digitized by Google
July, l888.] 343
locked slate (which lay on the table infruDlof him) Tery clOll8ly; and
be is even now of opinion that he did actully keep his eyes fixed upon
it Continuoaaly. When, however, after the lapee of about a qaarter-«-
an-hoar the slate was opened, it was IoaDd to contain a long meaaage
written on both the inner aides. Mr•. A. Podmore was astounded, and
expresaed himself confident that he had not let the slate go out of his
Alight. Yet Mr. F. Podmore had noticed that there was an interval of
something like three minutes, during which his brother had removed
his eyes from the alate and kept them fixed on Mr. Z.' face. In that
interval the conjurer's trick was performed, and Mr. F. Podmore had
been allowed to witness the performance. .
Mrs. Brietzcke said that she should like to add her teatimony to the
reality of the phenomena obtained with Mr. EgHnton. On seyeral
occasions when she was present writing had been done on the slates
while they were held in mid-air j and a great number of timespertinent
answers had been given to questions· the nature of which the medium
had no means of knowing.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then made' a few remarks, of which the fol~
lowing is the substance. .
When the question is raised as to whether an article signed by a
private Member of our Society is to be taken as authoritatively repre-
sentingthe views of the Society, it is well to remember that the Society
haa only one way of expressing itS 'views as a whole, namely, by the
election of Members of Council, and by the papers or circulars put forth
in the name of the Council. No doubtif articles advocating a particular
set of views were persistently excluded from the Society's publications,
the holders of those views might feel that they had cause to complain.
But Messrs. M&888Y' and M0888 (wlio have been on the Society's
Committeesince its foundation) do not thaa complain, and I think I may
add. that I happen to know that they have often been themselves asked
to write more frequently. In particular, there is, I belieye, a strong
desire on the part of many members of the Society to hear more about
those very phenomena to which Mr. Koae. has just now alluded. The
contemporary notes of those phenomena-with such omissions as the
private character of part of them inight render necessary-would form
adocument of the utmost value to inquirers. Even the brief account
of those phenomena which we already possess forms the backbone of
the evidence for Spiritualism. It is \eameatly to be hoped that the
notes which Mr. Moses tells us were 80 carefully kept, may be given
to the world with the completeness and detail which their importance
imperatively demands. And as regards Mr. EgHnton, Mrs. Sidgwick.
who, with Professor Sidgwick, is 1IJl8ble to be present to-night, has
asked me to say that she is personally anxious that her expression of
Digitized by Google
views should not be the only one, but that those who disagree with her
arguments should in their turn write to the Journal, the next number
of which, it is hoped, will contain Mr. Herschell's let~ in favour of
the genuineness of the impugned phenomena. The degree of power
possessed by conjurers to produce illusion is surely a necessary subject
of discussion, and one on which it is impossible to attain a clear know-
ledge without personal trial and reference to experts. If Mr.
Eglinton's phenomena are genuine, the discussion of the conditions
under which they are obtained may be expected to lead to an improve-
ment in those conditions, from an evidential point of view.
Mr. Mo.ssey has quoted Mrs. Sidgwick's modest estimate of her
own powers of continuous observation, and has argued that Mr.
Eglinton need not have exercised his 'privilege of failure" in her
presence. But remembering that Socrates was pronounced by the
oracle the wisest of men because he was the most conscious of his own
ignorance, we must not argue that Mrs. Sidgwick is a worse observer
than other people because she is more fully aware of her own
deficiencies.
And meanwhile there is anothet branch of evidence which, if made
of so.tisfactory strength, would support the distinctly Spiritualistic
hypothesis far more directly than any physical phenomena. can do, and
which private persons can work at without the need of a professional
~ediuDl. I mean the attainment through automatic writing of facts
unknown to any of the persons present. It is alleged by Spiritualists
that this frequently occurs, and all Spiritualists, as far as I ha,,-e heard,
admit that this is a class of evidence of capital importa.nce totheir theory.
I have again and again publicly asked for such evidence, but have
reaped as yet a very scanty harvest. Nor is t~is apparently due to
reluctance on the part of Spiritualists to send cases to me, for the very
few good cases which have reached me have come mainly from
Spiritualists, and, on the other hand, the Editor of Light, who has made
a similar appeal, has not (judging by the few cases as yet reported in
his paper) been more successful than myself. May it not fairly be said
that if Spiritualists took more pains to make careful and patient experi-
ments, and to report them at the time with accuracy and detail, they
would be taking the best means to further the acceptance of their dis.
tinctive theories f
Mr. W. !.ant Carpenter would like to ask whether the physiological
principle of "persistence of vision" had been taken into' account in
reference to some of these experiments. It was known that an act
~hich took place in less than one seventh of a second could not be per-
ceived by huma.n sight. A lighted stick rapidly whirled round, appeared
to be in all parts of the circle at once, causing the appearance of a
gitized by (.oogI
Jaly, 1888.] JfJW'nalof Socittu for P."cI.ical &.eorcll. 345
circle of fire. Mr. Oarpenter described a feat performed by the con-
jurer Bosco, in which two sovereigns were made to appear in and
cJisappear from the palms of his hands, the conjurer bimself being
absolutely naked to the waist, and the only perceptible movement was
a slight apparent trembling of both hands. The success of the trick
'Was de to the extreme rapidity with which the hands were withdrawn
and again extended, the sovereigns being temporarily concealed under
the armpits.
Mr. R. Pearsall Smith (of Philadelphia) called attention to the
eaution required iu judging of uncomprehended phenomena in slate-
writiug, produced by those upon whom fraud; had been proyed. He
ealled attention to a Mr. Yeo, who held for sale, at prices ~'arying with
their difficulty, seven ways of.producing phenomena in slate-writing,
with the standing offer of a forfeit of .£20 on his failure to reproduce
any Spiritualistic phenomena after having seen them twice. He also
read a letter from Professor Fullerton giving unfavourable results of his
inquiries at Leipzig as to the competency in accurate observation
of those who had been associated with Professor Zollner in his investi-
gations, stating that Professor ZoHner was diseased in mind, that one
of his coadjutors suffered from cataract, and the other was over 80
years old. He said that the special·virtue of true scientific investigation
was in the sincere welcome given to authenticated facts for or against
the theories under consideration.
The President, while endorsing the observation made that Mrs.
Sidgwick's paper was merely the expression of her private opinion, and
before calling upon Mr. Massey for reply, said he would like to make a
remark or two. In regard to many classes of phenomena, plan::hette-
writing for instance, several theories might be brought forward by way
of explanation. But with slate-writing, it must be either deception, or
we were in the presence of novel and very extraordinary phenomena.
There was no middle course. If you did not incline towards accept-
ing the reality of the phenomena, you necessarily inclined to the
conclusion that you were being wilfully deceived. A slate-writing
medium must thel-efore take his chance, arid Cannot complain, if by the
phenomena being disbelieved there·is an implied reflection cast upon his
c:haracter.
In the next place he had formed the opinion that in investigating
these things you could not easily dispense with the services of pro-
fessional mediums. If you did dispense with them you would obtain
very few phenomena to investigate. At the sa~e time he thought there
was ODe point in which justice had scarcely been done to Mrs. Sidgwick.
He agreed with her that it was extremely desirable that experiments
should be so arranged as to a.void the nece88ity for continuous obser-
Digitized by Google
v.ation. If a medium CAn obtain certain e~ teaults UDder
certain conditions, and yet, if he fails to obtain any results when the
conditions are slightly varied, 80 as to avoidthe l18Ce811ity for continuous
observation, it is, to say t.he least, very unfortunate.
He agreed with those who thought the idea an unfounded one,.
that men of science, or of good observation, were not a match for con-
jurers. It was a point in favour olthe mediums that slate-writing had
been 80 long before the public, and that the means by which it W&8'
done had not been indiaputably discovered. He had been present at
two or three seances with Mr. Eglintoo, when the" conditions bad been
extremely simple. This simplicity was also a point in the medium's
favour, and which would be further strengthened if conjurers should
prove unable to explain how the result. were obtained.
He called on Mr. Massey for any reply that he might wish to lnake
to the remarks that had been made.
Several questions having been put, Mr. Massey stated. in reply to
one by Mr. Podmore, referring to one of ZOllner's experiments which
had been cited. that there was nothinf; to suggest that the particular"
experiment with the leather bands ~ been previously tried. though"
the analogous one of " knots in an endless cord " had already succeeded.
It was not said when the bands were prepared for the experiment, but
no doubt it would have been prior to the Bitting. The experiment was
not designed to correct defects in fonner conditions, but to clear up a
doubt as between two theories of occult agency. The insinuation that
Zollner was insane before his death was absolutely unfounded; there
was not the faintest ground for it. One of his coadjutors, the celebrated
Wilhelm Weber, was old, but ZOllner himself was in middle life, and
in tho possession of all his montal pOwers. No value was to be placed
on second or third-hand reports. No one has ever offered even a
plausible explanation of the phenomeoa he recorded. and a oelebrated
German conjurer gave it as his opinion that they were not within the
kingdom of prestidigitation.
" PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
The price at which this book (2 y'~ls. octavo) will be issued is one
guinea. One copy will be supplied to every present Member of the
Society who has paid his subscription for the current year, for 5L 3d. and
the cost of carriage or postage ; and te evety present Associate who has
paid his SUbscription for the current year, for lOL &d. and the coat of
carriage or postage. M.embers and Associates who desire copies of the
work are requested to send their names to the Assistant-Secretary.
at 14, Dean's Yard, S.W.
Digitized by Google
34'7-
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY OOMMITrEE.
(ConCin.d.)
[2'Ae LUemry <hm",itufJ ",illbfJ glad to rem" tDeU autMmieatfld .ft~ OJ'
JIIaet- beloragiag to anll 0/ the /oUot"'ft{1 dcueu. 8ptCi..etU o/_icA are.
j'rwA titRe to Ci_ ~ in CIa.. JotWfiIA:
L. PAa,attum. 0/fie IAIIi'&g.
O. PAanta-. o/Ute Dead.
K. Hypnot"'" MmMrism, Gild OtainJO!J6nct.
P. Monition atld P,.etMllitio",
S. MidUaneolU ~&a 0/ the killd IIOmetimu clucribfJd CIII
··~iltie."
PfJ1'8OIial ~ 0/ "-taOt'!/ lwJll,cci'UltiOlu" 01 anll IIOrl will aID
be tDelcome.
TM Oom",Utu prit" NCI& co_ .. primdlacifJ _ to Ute", likd, to tArow
ligI&t OIl the ..&bjfJcta inw/Utigatfld IIy the 8ucMt1l. or to IfJn'f) a& materiallur
~ criticiaa IJftd di.tmu.ion. ""
OommunU:atiom it.tmdfJd lor 1M LitfJrary OommittflfJ Mould bfJ addruMl.
to EdIRUJId U"rrte!I, BtIIJ.., 26, MoJ.tpeliu Sq.IClf'fJ, Londtm, 8. W.; or, to.
FrtdfJ1'ic W. H. MlIer8, BIIfJ.., .l.fJckMmpfo" H-, Cambrid{ffl.]
The following incident. were duoribed to Mr. Gumey vicd _ by three
of the four ladies who have since supplied written testimony. This teati..,
mony WIUI in the fonn of lettera to Mrs. Brietzcke, an Honorary Auociate
of the Society, to 11 hom in the first instance we owe the CIUI8.
G.-477.
From Mi.. P. M.
1885.
My DBAB MRs. BBIBTZCKB,-Aa I have promised, I must write you an.
accountof tho things we I&W in our oldhouse in Edinburgh; butremember, 1
put them down to indigestion or elae neuralgia. The house was vory damp.
and had been unlet for a long time before we took it, which was in 18'11.
I believe I was the first who I&W anythinA unusual, and it must hava
been in one autumn aftemoon, about 4 p.m. I was paaaing through th&
hall from the dining-room to the schoolroom, where two doors faced each
other, and I I&W the figure of a woman, above the medium size, standing 01)
about the fourth step from the bot+..om ;,she had her arms folded, and was
draped all over (head included) in white; she seemed to be watching me.
and the thrill that ran through me made me fty into the schoolroom; but.
almost immediately after I ran out agiUn to see if it was only faney; and
fOllDd it had diaappeared. I never mentioned this to the others, or th&
sern.nta, as I was 80 ashamed uf myselft but told my mother only; but a&
it proved eventually, it appeared to nearly all in the house. I can only
recullectaeeing it about six or seven times altogether, I think, and it was
nearly always in daylight. One evening when the upper hall was dark I I&W'
it, and had the counge to follow it, and ran straight against a shut door,
which shock brought me to myself, and it dilappeared. Another aftemoon
Digitized by Google
348 [.Tal,., 1888.
I laW it in the drawing-room, and- it ... crouching over the fire ; but I am
lOrry to say I Wla too great a coward to go up to it, .. I could understand
thinga appearing at night, but when they came in daylight I could not make
head or tail of it.
Another peculiar incident took place. Our atore-room 11''' upetaira, iii
the basement 11'88 10 dAmp, and my aister had gone upstairs to getlOme wiDe.
We heard It. tremendous fall, and running out, found myaiater lyiug at
the bottom of tbe atairoaae aurrounded with broken bottles and dibrU. The
fint thing that au.z:.cted my attention 11'" this lame figure atanding just
at the bend of the ataircase, and, -naturally enough, thuught IIhe bad seen
it there too, and in her frigbt had fallen ; but wben IIbe came to, abe aid
that IOmebudy lUld pUllhed her at the bend and IIhe had fallen headlong. I
did not mention what I had seen then, aa lOme visitors were with III,
but afterwards told ber ;and ahe said abe had not seen anything, but had had
a blow in her back, aud had falleu 10 marvellously that abe had not hnrt
herself. Some time before this hapllened IIhe had felt a hand laid upon her
head in the IIChoolroom, and tumed lIick, and had seen a white figure 80m,
out of the door. Each one of UII laW this figure without telling the other,
and each now llervant alao. Our JWDCII were often called, and the voice
nearlya1waya came from the dining-room. Often and often we lwl &DIIwered
and gone into the room to find it elllpli)", aervanta likewise. On going up and
down lltairs, with our handa on the banisters, we 80metimes imagined a
eold 10ft hand was laid on them, 80 that I avoided touching the banisters
at all. We had our heads often touched, and in my case I uaed to feel all
five fingers distinctly.
One aftemoon, while studying at the acbool·room table, I had lltopped
up my ears with my fingers; I felt my head lIeized very roUJth}y, and
noticing my lIister had gone to the cupboard bebind me, thought it WIll
her wbo had touched me, 80 1 moved my head about to eacape her,
and said .. Don't," and was recalled to mYllelf by the goveme... who
touched me, and asked what on earth was the matter with nle; and I
found out that my sister had been back to her place for lOme time; that
was the moat distinct time that I felt it. I saw many otber things, but
they had no sequence, and 10 will not be interesting. Our cat was IOme-
times in a great fritrht, her hair aU atanding on end, and grovelliDg;
but at thOlle times 11'0 laW nothing, but of course felt" akeery."
Tlte bath-room first attracted my attention. We hadall a great repugnance
-to enter it, and I was 80 certain that thero 11'811 something uncanny about it.,
that I asked mamma if there was a story attached to it. She said "No." Not
.content with that, I investigated the room, and found out tho door bad been
forced; and it proved that the lady who lUId had the bouse before UII bad
-drowned herself in the bath. Now this is a thing I cannot account
for. ODe Dight, m&nlIDa 811 uaual wont at the usual hour to have
1ter bath; and finding to her· surprise the door locked, rattled it, and
:said, "Cumo, Emmie, I want to come in." EIUily replied from the next
bedroom that she was not there. She tried the door, and then went
to aoe where my other lIister and I were. . We all came lIut and had a b7
:at it. 1 must lay I could have awonl the door 11'88 looked; it might haVII
xot atuckin some peculiar way, but anyhow, after we had all lef~ it
Digitized by Google
JaJr. 1886.] Journal qf Socil!t!lfor P'!lclJical Re,enrclJ.
alone it half openedit:lelf. My mothercertainly was puzzled at that, and
ahe was a very practical woman. She never would acknowledge that she
saw lUlytbing, but heard all the noiaea that we heard, and said ahe would
move out of the house earlier than she intended, because the aerYanta
declared the house 1VB8 haunted, and said they would not atay; and she was
afraid of ita having a bad efFect upon us. .
Nothing would induce the servanta to atir out of the kitchen or their
bedroom after 10.30 at night; they barricaded up their door. One night the
cook, a new servant there, 1VB8 taking up BOme hot-water bottles to our
roolDB, and on drawing henelf up when she came to the top landing, found
herself in front of thia white figure; ahe tunled tail and flew for her life to
the kitchen. Hearing the noiae, I ran down to aee what was the matter, and
we found her white and acared in .the kitchen. We had not told her anything
about the house; it is poBBible the other servant may have done 80,
although ahe declared ahe had not. We heard the ruatling of leavtlll, or of
a ailk train on the ataircase at nighta, and that' was the only noise that was
heard in the lower regiona. The dining-room flat was the noisiest; w.
heard doon opening and ahutting, or attleaat what BOunded like it, for I used
to go down BOmetimes to try and discover what it was. The noisea were
too aubstantial to be cats or rata, it was more like the big heavy tahle in
tlJe dining.room, and the chain being bumped about. At about aix in tlJe
morning a heavy bump BOunded, which Ihook the whole houao; in the
dift"erent rOOllla it BOunded in different directions; and we never could find
out what occaaioned it, although we tried to investigate it over and over
again. The shock may have taken place in BOme other house, and our
foundations being very old, and I dareaay ahaky, it travelled along,
and BO we heard it; it was like a miniature explolion. We had a
great aversion to the drawing-room, too, and never would ait tllere alone;
for we bad a peculiar feeling that BOmebody 1VB8 in tlle room with UI; I often
thought I 1VB8 touched, and felt BOmebody moving about the room. It W&8
in that room that I saw a tall blue shape with what looked liko eyel ; but I
kept looking at it, and it Ilowly disappeared; this was in daylight alBO. Those
eort of ghostly things did not terrify me much, and especially at the last, for
I was BO certain that Bome trick W08 being played upon us ; and tried to find
out how tbey appeared. But one ovening I 11'&8 terrified by Bomething out
of the ordinary. .
I was all alone in the dining-room one night, as tlJe othen were all
out at a concert, and the little one had gone to bed. It mUllt havo
been about 9.30 or 10. 1 was working, and· was opposite the preas, or
cupboard, the door of whicb was open. Gradually tlle feeling came over
me that I was not alone in the room, and that I was being watched, BO that
I could not help raising my head, and exactly 0ppolite me, just appearing
round the preBB-door, 11'''1 the face ofa mall-the mOBt wicked andevil-looking
face I have ever seen, more like a demon's face than anything olle. The
akin was of ayellowy colour, and it had black hair, moustache and beard~
The eyea were fixed upon me, and even as I looked, this awful head projected
more round tlledoor, and I saw the neck. There we gazed at each other. I
was perfectly frozen with horror, and could not move or speak. As soon ail
my senses began to collectthemselves, I thought, that can't be a ghost, for it·
Digitized by Google
wn't traaapannt like the othen ; it ...med a IOlid head. for it bid the pan
.of the door it wu in front of ; 10 1 thought the ~ thing waa to ap.-r ~
frigh&eaed, .. I had read in at.ury boob ; BO after paing u me for what
appeared a quarter-of-an-ho1ll' in m)' gru.t horror, the head awldenl)' drew
.beck. I atill8&t petrified, expecting ittocome out &pin ; and there I eat until
the othen came home, and only then ..ent up to the door, and wu Dot a bit
nrpriaed to find nothing behind, becauae the preu wu filled with ahelva.,
and it 11''' an impoaibility for anybody to get into it ; BO it muat have been a
bitof my brain in an ucitable condition. That ... a aubatantial ghoat, ..
I call it.
I 8&11' one' other, .but it .... a moat natural Ol\e. Puaing through
the hall, I 8&.. an old woman atAnding by thehall door;and going to nuunm.
I uked her who ahe ...., and ..hat ahe had come for. Mamma Did ahe did
.DOt bow anybody had come ; 10 going out into the hall I 8&.. her (the
woman) .till there, and went down to tell the aervanta that BOmebod)' had
:come, and to go and _ what ahe wanted. When I came back, the woman had.
disappeared. I immediately ..ent to the hall-door, found it locked., and
'Opening itwent into the garden, lookiIIg for the ..oman; but ahe waa Dot to
be _11. The aervanta, too, did not mo.. anything about her. I had.
Dot an)' fear or aurpriae at _illl her, bocauu I did not go... for a
moment that ahe .... Dot real. No.. I have tOld :rou all &8 well ..
I can remember it; but ..e put a great deal of it down to a damp
houae and neuralgia, and indigoatiQn. I w.. conatantly aufFering from
Deuralgia there, and that, I dareuy, wu the oauae of all my apparitiona.
I hope, though, that theBe ridiouloua notea may be of lOme uae to )'on.
P. M.
From Hila E. M.
1885.
I have been a long time in writing out my account. I hope now it iadone
it will prove to be IOmething .. not too utterl), ridiculoua." It seerwi
au fooliah for a aenaible creature like myaelf to commit to paper thinp
au perfectly puerile. My contempt for ghoata paiaea deacription, and I am
very angry that I did ace that moumf~l ..hite thing by the dreuing-table, ..
I have to put it dowll ; but I attribute it, like Mr. 8croogtt, to "a piece of
undigeaWd beef, or apeck of muatard," from ...hich delicaciea Old Marley ....
auppoaed to have been compounded..
In accordance with Mn. Brietacke'a requeat, I aend an account of my
't!s.periencea at our old houu in Edinburgh.
I 11''' quite a child when ..e fint went there, and wu wId nothing .. to I
the rumoun afloat a\lQut the houae, orthe earlier es.perienC8B of my aiaten. l
I "felt" 10111 before 1 ""11'," but thought it 1I"U merely the natural
~hildiah fear of dark rooma, al1d ao~itude, but &8 I arew older and atrongel',
I loat the fear, but lIot the .. feebng," which 11'&8 diatinctly attached to ,
certain portiona of the houae ; Damtlly. the drawing-room, the dining-room
and the ataircaae. . •
. In the drawing-roODi the aenaation 11'&8 of aomeone pacing the room
hurriedly up and doWD, pRuaing now and again, then continuing. On one
.occaaion my eldest aiater left the piano at which ahe 11"&8 practiaing, from the
Giat.in~ ~mp~~o~ ofIOmeone pauin,g continually behind her chair.
•• ! ,
Digitized by Google
In the dining-1'OODl I me frequeDtly. experienced the senaation of lOme-
-one bending over my shoulder. a diatinct feeling of the air being diaturbed.
The cat baa often risen from the rug, OD which it W&I aleepiug ; with hair and
~ erect, inevidenthorrorat IOmething ; and '1I'e had several cata in rotation,
and each in turn exhibited Iymptoma of fear oceuionally.
The staircue seemed to be the happy. huntiug ground of the ghOlts, and
~ere repeated phenomeh& took place.
Descending one evening, a slDall cold hand W8I laid upon mine,which waa
natiug on the baniaten. Each finger I felt exactly, 10ft and cold, and
could hardly beliovo that nothing W81 viaible. Othen in the house fre-
quentiy saw the white figure on the ltaircaae, but 1 nevor did, and refused to
believe in it at all, till one aftemoon I WBI sent into my mother'l room to
report if the fire weN burniug satiafactorily. Being diaturbed in the middle
of my singing, I went to execute the errand in a frallle of mind, not exactly
.ealoulaHd to "seeghoata."
It W&I dusk u I entered the room, and overytbing W81 more or leu in
Jlhadow, which perhaps aerved to throw out in bold relief the tall white form
of a woman, leaning against the windo.. -curtain by the dreiling-table. It
.aa supematurallytall, and stood with arma folded, looking Itraight at me,
.with a moat heart-broken expreuion in the eyes. Even at the fint glance it
did not look real, 81 the dark blue curtain.waa viaible all through it, but leu
80 at the face andshoulden. The face WRa 10 sad and Iweet I did not feel very
frightened,butwalked straight up to the ourtain, and grasped itin my handa,
shook it, and looked behind it, but there wu nothing there. I W&l frightened
then, and ran out of the room. I neversaw it before, and never saw itilter
that.
My room W8I at the end of a paiIage whicb led from the It.aircaae
landing, and palled the bath·room door; it W8I only separated therefore from
the bath-room by the wall, and although I knew later on what tragedy had
.occurred in that room, ita clOie proximity did not diaturb me iO' the
Jilightest. My room waa diltinctly ono of tbe clear lpota in the house. I
waa alwaYI glad to get into it and cloBe'the door, 81 it alwaYI felt " ..fe."
Thia feeling did not prevent me from hearing what occurred in the rest
of the house. One night I ltarted 11p in bed from a lound Ileep. I do not.
know what woke me, but I heard a loft rUltling lound descending the
.tain. I could not account for it, and could only compare it to dead leaves
being Iwept down the ltepa. Soon after, tbe hall clock Itruck 1 o'clock.
The nextmomiug, tbe cook and housemaid told me (of their own accord)
·that. 81 the clock Itruck 1, they heard " a !Oft ruatly kind of BOUnd come down
the kitchen ltain, Iweep into the laundry, run round tllree time8, tllen there
was a great bang I" The cook deacribed the BOund 81 " a lot of dead leaves
like!" Thia ia very remarkable, aa Iliy room W&I two ItoreYI above the
kitchen, and the time and deacriptioll of BOund tally exactly.
I waa present when the door of the bath·room refuled to open, and was
about to try to open it mYlelf for the third time, when it opened gently and
J'eliatleaaly without any eft'ort on my part. I waa the only one in the house
1l0wever who never hoard the " morning bang" 81 wo called it, though the
German govemell and varioul viaiton all heard it. We left the house
earlier than we intended, 81 the serYaDta refused at 18lt to remain, and
Digitized by Google
352 [lalf,1&
became very troublesome, never venturing aboat the· hoUle excepl in
couples, and no power upon earth could have induced them to quit their
room after lmlf paat 10, whioh from their account wall in 'a IIOrt of beaiepl
garrieon condition, the door being aeourely barricaded from within, 10 !'By
disturbance which occurred during the night could not poaaibly be pJacadt
&lllIOme have IlUpposed, to their account. I do not think I have anything
more to My. We were all glad to leave the hOUlle, and a month or two aft.er,
we went over it one day with IIOme frienda, and the feeling of gloom and
oppreuion was ap(llllling. and were glad. to· get back into the' lIunahine, and
all unhesitatingly pronounced it II haunted."
It mUllt have been fearfully damp; a bonbon left on the IIhelf of the OUp-
board in my Bistel'll' room would be completely melted in two days, and
boots and moeB, unleIIB conlltantly worn, were apt to get all mouldy anel
damp.
I cannot account for anything which happened, and can safe]y affirm
that anything which I BaW or felt Wall certainly not due to fear or nervoUl-
n8llll, &II I unhesitatingly would go to any portion of the hoUle all alone, in
the dark.
My " double" or .. wrRith" W&II twice seen upon the bend of the ataircue,
once by my Bister, and once by a frienel, at different times, but upon always.
the Bame place. ,.••
The cook who W&II with UII at the time of whioh I llpeak ill dead, and
we have IOBt lIight of the hOUllemald. ,All I have nothing' more to 1liiy I will
~ ~~
From }fiaa K. M.
Ikumbtr 4th, 1886.
My D.BAR MR.... BRIBTZcKJ:,-In compliance with your wishes, I Bend a
few linea to add my testimony to that of my lIistol'll' about our "haunted
hoUle "(1) in B-- Place. The only time I BaW any lIign of an apparition
wail in tlle year 1872. I Wall in the IIOhool-room preparing my ICllllOnll (about
5 o'clock) for the next day when I Buddenly became unconaciotlll, and on re:-
covering I MW the figure of a tall wOlDAndraped in whitegoing out at the door.
I could not see the face. but the figure Wall tall and elegant, and from what
my lIister P-- deacribeB, mUllt be -thlt lIalDe figure IIhe IIIIW IIOmetimeL
That Wnll the only time I ever BaW her; but one day, yeal'llafter (about 1878),
I wall coming dowlll1tail'll when I Buddenly became unconscioulI, and fell the
whole length of the lltail'll. 1\ly lIister P-- rushed out from the dining--
room and found me lying at the foot of the Btail'll; MW the figure ofthia.
woman at the top. and imagined I had lIeen her, and Callen in terror; but t
did 110t Bee anything, and never can to thiB day account for the peculiar way
I fell, jUBt nil if I had been pUBhed, witll great ,-iolence. Our aervanta,
deolared they Ba" ghOliu and heard IlCCuliar Boundll, and all this acted on
our nervoull BYBtellJlI, and no doubt made UII acnsith'e and alarmed at the
leaBt lIOund, amI a ray of moonlight WaB no doubt transformed into the
figure of a ghOBt (1)! One other remarkable incident Wall in connection witb
the bath-room (where Ml'II. S. had COlllmitted Buicidc a few mootha
before wo'took polIBCllBion of the houlle); our moilier tried to open ilie door
one evening I\B Bhe wishod to take her bath, IUld trie<l in vain to get in, 80
concludod somo otller member oltha family WaB in there, but on inquU1
Digitized by Google
we found that DO one had entered the room, and my mter made a lIign of
the Cl"OIIII on the door and it wu immediately opened.1 .ThillllOWlIia like an
impoaaibility, but we were all there, and mother, who had not an atom of
f...., and no belief in IIpirit., 1I'U I18mewhat puzzled, and we can never
account for it.
This ia my valuable (1) testimony. It 100M anooDlmonly u if I were
weak in the head. and given to tumbting down whenever the apirita were
grMioua enolllh to come and viait me. But since we left B-- Place I
have given up coming down lltairs bead fol'8lllOllt, aDd tlOtO if I found a dOOl'
refUIe to open I should send for a picklook.
K. M.
From Millll Z. M.
188rs.
I waa 10 y8lll'll old at the time I saw thia figure, and my' mind waa far
from ghoata, u my mother had never allowed anyone to llpeak to me of lIuch
things. One day I W&II let out of the achool-room for half-an-hour's play at
12 o'clock_ My playroom waa upetain, and u children often do, I ran
apetain on all foun, that ia on my handa u well &II my feet. All I reached
the middle of the atairII a peculiar feeling made me look up to the top land-
ing. and lltanding close to the tint lltep of the stair WBII a tall white figure of
a woman, and it _med to be above the usual height. I could _ the form
distinctly, but at the sanle time I IIIIW throlllh her. It looked at me for a
feW' aeconda, then tumed and walked into the passage leading to the bath-
room. Not knowing what it wu, I had not the IIlight.eatfear, and I followed.
it there. Of coune, when I got there, the room W&II empty. It wu then for
the fint time that I felt, &II the Scotch say, .. uncanny." I told my mot.her
what I had '!Ieen, but abe lalllhed at me, and lI(lun I forgot all about it.
This is the only time I saw the figure, but I often heard myself called fl"Qm
a .onk preu in the dining-room, but that may have been an echo. Very
frequently in the moming, about 6, my mother and I heard a loud thud
against the inner wall of the house (it Willi a hoUIIEI lltanding in ita own
grounda) ; it IIhook tlle whole house. and for along time my mother took no
notice of it; IIhe thought it Willi the servant cleaning the school-room below.
and after pulling out the grand piano to clean behind, had rolled it back
with too I{l"8&t a force, and knocked the walL My siatenheard it, too, but in
ditFerent parte of the house. One moming my aiater went down to lind out
if it Willi tho servant; but ahe found ho"lI tho grate cleaning the irons. She
aai<' she had been there fully 10 minutes, and had ne\"er heard the lIOund
herself. A great many of our aervanta left UII because of these lOunda and
aighta. One cook we had W&II taking the hot water boW. up to the bed..
one night and she saw thia figure on the middle of the atain, and IIhe WBII 110
frightened that abe did not know abe had let one of the bottles fall on her
bare ann till abe got downatain again and found her arm Dloat frightfully
bumt. Except for hearing IItrange BOunda, which I wu told to put down tn
rata, and having a peculiar deproued feeling come over me when I entere4
the honae, nothing elae happened to me that I can remember.
y
Digitized by Google
MR. EGLINTON.
Mrs. Sidgwick desires to My that all the a.ccounts receh-ed by her
of sittings with Mr. Eglinton were printed in the last number of the
Journal, with the exception of two, the writers of which desired that
they should not be printed.
In the course of last winter, Mr. G. T. Sachs, an expert iD'
conjuring, was requested by a few members of the Society for Psychical
Research (who at the time were unaware of the statements made iD
1878 by Archdeacon Colley-see Journal for June) to hold some
sittings with Mr. Eglinton at their expense, and to report the results.
He consented, and Mid that be would get Dr. G. Herschell, also an
expert in conjuring, to accompany him. Mr. Sachs has not yet sent
in bia report. The following letter bas been received from Dr.
Herschell :-
:fl. Moorgate Street, July 3rtl, 1886-
DRAB MR. GURNEY,-I hsve¥therto delayed aending in my report .. to
the conclusions that I have arrived at by my sitting with Eglinton, aa 011
account of illnell I have been prevented from finishing the series of experi-
ments I was making as to the possibQity of imitating psychography. I mut
conf811 that!am unable to discover any method forproducing writing onslates
without inltant detection by the Ipectatol'll if they are conjurel'll, and even
then only under an abaence of the conditiollB.under whicll Eglinton WorkL
I find that I elm only produce, even after lOme months of practice, ODe or
two worda upon the slate held simply under the table, but any obaerver of
ordinary &CUIDen could not fail to detect the neceuary movements. I am
unable to do anything at all with the locked llate, and I find that there it no
invisible ink in existence which can imitate slate-pencil writing.
So tll&t taking into conBideration the rapidity with which the writing came
at my fil'llt litting (reported in lAg/It), ann the fact that Sachs and I were
watching him clolely. and did not"detect any of the movemel:ts I fiud it DOW
neceaaary to make, lam dri,"en to the concluBion that the writing is produced
by lOme other method than" by the agency of Eglinton'. muscles." This
il tbe conclusion to wlllch I have come after an exhaulti\"e aeries of experi-
menta that have left me no loophole.of escape. Hoping that you will exCllll
the length of time I have taken, but I wished to gi\"e a. fair trial to my
methods before I confeued myaelf beaten,-Believe me, yOUl'll truly,
GBORGxHBBSCJBLL.
In a second communication Dr. Herschell adds:-
I allure you that I have not arrived at the conclUBion that I here
without a hard Itruggle, as I was biassed the other way, as you Jmow
very well.
The following letter from Dr. Herschell had pre\'ioualy appeared
in Lig'!,t, for June 26th, 1886, p. 290:- .
:fl. Moorgate Street, E.C., Jutle 18t1a, 1886.
DRA.lL EaLINTON,-In R.Dlwer to your note jUBt received, I lDay say that
if HrB. Sidgwick has ever aeen me do any alate-writing, it haa been -part of
Digitized by Google
~ely. 1886.] Jourlwl qf Societ!/forP8!1cMcai Rt8tOrcl,. 355
an ordinary entertainment of sleigh~f-hand, and produced under conditioDs
quite di1ferent from thoso under which your peychograpID'. takes place. w.hen
1 have given such exhibitions it baa been for the sake of showing ~01r lilU.
prestidigitation could do towards imitating slato·writing, apd never with the
pretence of showing how yo" produced it. ,
For some time after my first sitting with YO)1, I candidly conf_that I
1rorked very hard, both. by myself and in consultation with well·known
public performers, to find out a method of imitating psycbography, and 1 do
Dot think that there is a way that I have not tried practically. I have conle
to the conclusion that it is poaaible to produce a few words, on a slate if the
minda of the audience can be diverted at the proper time (a thing, perfectly
impoaaible under the eyes of conjurers, who know 'every possible way of pro-
ducing the result by tricktlry, without ill8tant detoction).. Beyond this, con-
juring cannot imitate psychography. It can du nothing with locked slates,
and slates fastened together. It cannot write answers to questions which
have not been seen by the performer, as you are constantly doing. At .tho
beat it only produces a mild parody of the very simplest phenomena under
an e"tit·e abMn" of all tilt COlld,tWn~ undw 1C/lich thllle MbitUIJUY OCCU1' :It
!lour Mkmcu.
Allow me also to take the present opportunity of thanking you most
sincerely for the opportuni~ies you hat'e given me of satisfying myself of the
genuineneaa of psychography by diacu88ing openly with me,' as you have
done, the various pouible ways of imitating the phenomena, and.of letting
me convince myself" in detail, that you did not avail yourself of theJu.
I hope that you have had a successful visit to Ruaaia, and that your
health is now quitere·establiahed.-With kind regaroa, yours sincerely,
GEORGB HBBSCHBLL,. M.D.
W. Eglinton, Esq.
DBTERMINATION OJ' THB TIME OF SLATE·WRITING.
To Ike Editor of tM J OURNAL OF THE SOCIBTY FOR PIIYCHICAL
RBIIEARCH.
SIR,-In the June number of the Joumal, Mrs. Sidgwick, referring to
the various length of time during which observation haa to be kept up,
remarks :-" At other times it may be comparatively IIhort, bllt .manifestly
in no case can it be determined merely by refere~ce to the time at which the
writing 1lU1IW to be done" (p. 332). In flO cau. This was 8Q much at.
variance with my general recollection of experiences of my own with Slade
and Eglinton, that I had the curiosity to go through the evidence printed in
the same number of the Jcmrllal (whichtilicited Mm. Sidgwick's remarks),
with special reference to this point, though with littlo expectation of finding
that a .critic usually so careful had made so positive a statement in direct con-
tradiction to. evidence under her eyes at the time. ,It is 80, however, 84 the
followingreferenees will show. For there is one way in which the time of
the actual wliting can be determined by reference to that of the BOUlld as of
."ri~iDg, which ~ when a quostion is put by the 8itter and sJ)swered on tile
moment on the sJate. At p. 301 Mr. G••\. SmitIt gives the following
"ntence. as obtained 011 tIte slate :-" If you like ·.to try it ·we will
gitized by (..oogI
356 [lal"I_
be happy to do our beet for· you, for you know you do not dictate
your own eonditioDl." "The Jut wonl." ..,.. Mr. Smith, " ~
peared to have heeD very hutily aDd careleialy written, and we were UJl·
certUn what it _ iDtended for : 10 the slate wu held beneath the taltle
again, with the requeat that the word should be re·written more legibly.
l~," (italiea are Hr. Smith's) .. we heard writing, and the word
• coDditiooa' waa fotmd oeenpyicg the whole width of the alate." It may be
preaumed that the slate w.. withdraWft for examination .. BOOn .. the lOuad
ceaa«l i and unl... itis suggeated that the word wu written on the !'eftIW
aide to that of the IMIIltenoe, and hAdbeen previoualy prepared (the queatioa
lJeingled up te by an intentional mepbility of the Jut word of the aenteDee),
we have here a cue in which the time of the actual writing is exactly deter-
mined by the lO~nd. The little ~ible doubt ia thie cue d~ not eUt in
"'e next-Hrs. Brietlclre's_tp. 294 :-"II&id, •Pleaae write the figure 4.'
In a motIIeftt we heard writmg, and on lilting the covering alate there WIll s
bold "."
Again: "I said • Write Han.~ll ~iaa L. added, ' So that it can heseeD.'
Itlfia"tly we heard writing, aad wliea. the alate wu expoaecl , Han' wu fouad
written in eery 1arge letten."
Again: "I mid, • Why did you Dot write for Profeuor Barrett the other
day" Tbe written reply, obtaMted ...·..JC10 -.l., _ •Becauae hedictatel
his own condit.iolle.' n
In Hr. HaroldMurray'e evideuC8,atp. 296, four queatioDi are mentioned,
to which answers came in (1) "three to five minutes," (2) "two to thrw
minutes," (3) "ODe and a half minutes" <a_er oU2 wordl), (4) .. a1mtJatat
once" (14 worde). There 188m to beother inataDcea in the l&IDe collection of
evidence. bot I think theBe seven or eight are enough to ahow that the period
ofcontinuousobeervation can often be defined.. of extreme brevity,&IIcl'that
IOmetimea the moment of actual writing can be determined by that of the
sound. E,timntu of temporal intervale are no doubt little to be depended
upo~, but .. inetantly," "in a moment." &c., are not eatimatN, aDd JIr.
Harold Hurray'e timea 188m to have been canofully computed and diI-
tioguiahed, and the third of them is .tated .. preciae.-Your obedieD~
aervant, C. C. HusR•
. .wJ., 9U..
SIa,-1 am glad that Hr. Muaey hal called attention to what, .. he hall
misunderstood it, mut I fear be an ambiguoUl aentence of mine in the W
number of the JOt'n&t.d. I will endeavolll' to eJ:plain my meaning mon
fully. In apeaking of .. the time at which writi:tg _, to be done," I mean
in moat c&I8I the time when tile IOUnd 01 a.pparent writing i. heard, and die
only reuon I had for UIiog the _ definite phrue WIll that I wiaheIl to m-
elude poaaible c&I8I where the apparent time of writinJl may have been ...,.
geated ia lOme other way, though I do not think anyauch _ ar& reeorded
among thoae given in the JOtcnttil. .Now it _ma obvioDi that.. the aouad
of writing can be imitatoci, it aiForda no indication that writing is beiBg doDa.
I never intended to deny that the real time of writing may, ia lOme ca-.
ccincide with the time when we _ to·hear it, though I do Dot think we
have any grouodl for thinking that it did eocoincide in the C&IIeI refemMI ..
Digitized by Google
M7.
b7 Mr. Malley. What I did wiah to UpreIII 11''' that the _it"to be dODe
afl'orda UI no help whatever towarda determining when it u done.
And tht! euea which Mr. Ma.tae:r quotee are .. good Uhutrationl of thia
_ anyother. Theyare-at any rate,l8verai of *em----euea where the interval
of time during which continuoUi obeervation .... required wuwhat I have
aJ.led comparatively ahort; but what enabled me to Ul8rt thia hal nothiJJg
to do with when the writing aeemed to be done. It ia that at one end the
limit of time ia given by the _king of the queation (Uluming, of COUl'l8,
that thia 11''' not led up to) and at the otherend by the aeeing of the anawer
~n the Blate. .Aa to the duration of the time between theae IbpitB, I have DO
lleaitation in ..ying that it wu&hort compared with that during which con-
tinUOIlll obaenation would IOmetiDlea have to lMI kept up, but 1 mould be
ahaid to I&y that it. wu ahort compared with the time a conjurer would
%equUe to didract the attention in order to accompliah the neeeuary writing ;
Partly becauae I cannot agree with Hr. Muaey in regarding "inatautly," •• in
a moment," .. many people DIe the expreuiona, u anything more than vague
.ubjectivd eatimatea of time; and partly beca1Jll8 even in Mr. Hurray'l cue
we do not know when the time wu meuflred from, e.g.. whether it wu
from the moment when the (Iueation ,va. written doWD, ('r from the moment
when the alate wu put under the table. In JrIra. BrietBcke'arecord there are
indicationa that " in a moment" refen only to the time after the alate 11'88
'placed in poaition, and that thia d~a 'not include all the time during which
continuoUi obeervation wu required, for her words ... to one cue are,
.' I aaid, 'Pleue write the figure "jaild tAe "'1M alate _, placed ell before.
In a moment," &0. I do not think that the words I have italiciaed can be
ntended to delCribe anything that oq:urred in the "moment." In Hr.
Smith'a cue it ia pretty clear that "immediately" refera to the time after
the alate wu in poaition under the taWe, but we cannot tell that a apecially
favourable opportunity for writing the won! did not occ1lr before that-when
they were diacuuing the illegibility of the previoualy written won!.-I am,
Sir, &e.,
ELaANoa HILDBBD SIOOWJCL
To Uae Bditor of tJr.e JOUII.NAL .OF THB 8ocJBTl; roB PsYCHICAL RIII8B.ucJI.
Knockderry Cutle,
Oove, Dumbartonahire, N.B.
12th: 7: 86.
81&,-ln the Jwmal for lutDlOliltb, June, thereappelUllalargenumber
~porta on aittinga held with the well-known medium, Mr. Eglinton, two or
thne 0( which were aent iu by mYllllf. I would not ventul"e to treapua on
. your apace and time in uking you to pllbliah lOme additional remarks upon
theae, but that I hold Hra. 8idgwick'a .criticiam of them to be both aUller-
Acial aad ineuet, as, in a alight degrea~ I will leek to ahow preaently.
Mn. 8idgwick .ya &he hal "RO J&uitatiol. in attributing the perlor-
mancea to clever conjuring." So far .. ahe henelf ia concerned abe ia
welcome to think of my aittinp .. abe lUcea; but I have a decided objection
that.othera, who may have read the•.with 1
... biu and more caution, mould
.wallow her atat.ementa .. im.mutable u.ad acientific fact. Her halty judg-
Digitized by Google
358 .Journal of 8()(!iet!1 fol' Pll!lcAicalReBtarCh. [J01,.. 188G.,
ment, however, surprises me the more as coming from one who. preaumably
admits And 'ACCP.pts the tremendous illues ,,,t stake in tile Newnltam '0l\Il8
(see the J"'lnatll for May, 1885). There js no ·suoh exceediug difference
between the 'Newnlulm marvels and Mr. Eglint-m's "conjuring;" In the
one eRIe when Mn. Newnham is the medium (or writer), we have anlwera
Riven to questions whioh are quite and demonstrably unknown to her by any
of the aooapted ohannels of senae. These answers are, besidea, apparently
quite incompatible'with her ordinary phases of oonsoiouaneas and normal
good oharacter; S(l muoh 10 as to suggest to Mr. Myers his quaint tlleory
upon the aotion of the IIeOOnd Iullf, a quite immoral half, (If the brain. In thB'
other ease, when Mr. Eglinton is the medium or writer, there Me, as befON,.
questions unknown to him answered with a knowledge that ·seems separate
from Ilis, the medium's ordinary powers, with but, one addition-that the'
answer is made by means of a pelloil not visibly governed by the medium·...
lbuscles, instead of by ApIanohette; BO, to ACCept theNewnham case in ita.
~ntirety is hardly, it seems to me, " greater step away from scientifio ortho-
doxy, ,han from the basis of the Newnham case to admit the poasibility of
llate-writing or oooult powers. At aliy rate, a believer in the one, as Mrs_
Sidgwiok,' I should expect to be more careful in condemning the other. 1
do l1at either know, iithere be some ilnmor"lity oonnected with mediumahip
(lam not referring to the instance quotecl by Mrs. Sidgwiok in tl18 Jour",,')
whether the immomlity in the one case is much worse than in .the other, or
of '& quite unaUiud nature. Be it understood I do not in any way impup
Mrs. Newnham, or at least tile better half of her bmin, of any col1lJCioua Bin.
I. have however properly nothing to do but with the facts tllat came under
my own notice in Mr. Eglinton's preRence, and now proceed to Mrs. Sidg-
wiok's oritioism of theao.
She writes in concluaion: " I can hardly imagine being myself.convincec!
that it" (the aIa.te-writing) ••was genuine exceptby evidenceofa different 1IOrt,
to wit, the testimony of thoroughly competent and trustworthy witnesses
that in several oas88 it had been produced under oircumstances whioh di.....
pouaed with the necellity of continuoup obaervation."
As to my own l~rs(lnM competence I can claim nothing beyond average
common-sense and somB custom 81 "n art-student to stddy ol08ely every·day
ltfe hoth In its llllltteJ;'·of-factneaa and in its greater subtleties and mJllterious
p088ibilities of exprell8ion, which may ill certain waJII be quite as fitting a.
preparation fot' the finding (If some truths 81 the absorption of any amount uf
scientific materialism. But if scientifio Cf)Ulpetenoe be in question, few
higller authorities than Professors Crookes, WallACe and Zollner could be
named, who have testified to the genuineneas of the forces brought iuto
action through mediuRl..hip; Bnd further, Mrs. SidjlWick _ma entirely to
ignore tl1e report in this aame JotcrJial of last month made by the Ruasian
ProfetlllOl'll, Wagner, Boutlerof, and Dobroal&vin. And if, again, the evi.
dence of adepts in conjuring is required, such has been alre.a.dy given and
notably within the last wcek by Dr. Hersol1ell ill Light, than which not.hing
could be more preciBe, and more fAvourable to Mr. Eglinton. Mrs. Sidg-
wiok next l"eIluires trustworthiness in witD888es, which apart from competence
means nothing 1888 than A general honesty Ilf purpose and an unbiaaaed
ai,noerity in observation. .As I am p8nonally known to Mrs. Sidgwick anet
Digitized by Google
.other leaden of the Society, presumably their accept&nl:e of my reports '
.implies their trus~ in my sincerity (though I Jll&y be a dupe); otherwise there
'Would have,been alreadya grou breach of duty on their side towards the I...
active and irreallOnaible members of the Society. Finally Mrs. Sidpick
..requires" teatimony that it," the writing, "had been produced under circum-
.a~ncea,which dispenaed wi~4 the neceeaity of continuous oheen'ation," and
it is to this last aen~nce I wish mainly to make answer.·,
I·insist that the condition of prolonged and the;refore pl"Obably fatigued
~bservation was absent in l8y teat of an &DIlI'er given to a question unknown
to those in the room, being one chosen at random from six mixed within an
envelope, aU of which were writ~n BOme days before on lix identical llips of
paper. To make the teat clearer I will explain it at grea~r lengtb. The Blips
were cut from blank no~-pn.per,and all.clipped down to an identical exactn_
~f appearance. On each was written a v,ery limple queltionp the AIlIIwer to
which was evident, and could be !{iven ouly in one way by one or more words
cf a direct nature, thus avoidingall cha::ce of gueaa-work or ambiguity lueh as .
might arise in a general answer prepared by Mr. Eglintun on a sla~ as an
evasive reply to mOlt questions. After the sitting had commenced, and
writing been obtained in the ordinary way, I luddenly prolJOBed this teat to
Mr. Eglinton who at once agreed to lee what could be done. A alate was
placed on 1M middlll of tAt table1witk a morael of llellcil-in full daylight of
eourae-and upon it I put one of the llips, question downwards, my fluger
preaaing the llip to the alate till withdrawn as allother Ilate closed it down,
thus securiDg the llip from all observation. The llip au placed was chosen
at random from the onvdope jUlt then taken from my pocket containing lix.
It is, 1 think, therefore legitimate for nle to conclude timt 1\1 lung 1\1 tllis
slip was in my fingers, under my own eyel, blank side ul'lJermolt, I. could
mylIP.lf only gueBB as to which of the Bix queBtiol18 it might be, and further
eould be certain that none other in the 1"0<)01 knew anything at all I)f ita
nature. Five aeconda may have elapsed from the moment I cbose the Blip at
random out of the envelope until my finger was withdrawn from a Becure
touch upon it, and certainly not two aecondB more could have I>a&Bed from
the moment my fiuger Wl!.ll withdrawn until the Bocond Bla.te oo\'ered it over
aecurely. My handl, with those of Mrs. C. P. and the medium were then
placed firmly above both Blates, always in the nliddle of the table. Fh'c
minutes went by while as related in the last J01If'7lUl, the l'al,ticular question
)I'M anBwered correctly ; then came another period of-aay two Becond.,
during which the upper Blate 11'1\1 removed &4d I found my alip aB I had left
it at one end of the alate with therequiredanawer. _~Bonce our bandBcloBed
the two BlateB down, aU conjuring became ilDpOIBible until u. changeof position
and M I am certain none coUld read the queBtion chOBen until it left lily
banda (if !:Ver), 1 contend that the only two critical perioda for observation
were thoae of two B8Conda each :-as I withdrew my finger from the slip to
permit tho uPller slate to clOie it down, and as Bimilarly tbis upper Blate was
withdrawn a little later. The circumstanceB llere aeem to me to be thOIle"
which dispenae with the neceuity of continuous observation. Furthermore.
the 'required teat was presented luddenly as I have aaid to Mr. Eglinton.
and contained Buch inherent difficulties to be overcome .. mUBt have fairly
taken aD ordinary conjurer or preatidigitateur by Burpriae, who does not &B
Digitized by Google
360 [Jaly. 1885.
a rule"lubmit to improviMd alteratiOlll on hia programme, aIld leUChiDg
inquiry or indeed interfennce of &D1 kind from .hiII aadienoe. If the
reporiAIlent in by Mr. G. A. Smith and mytelf be OOIIIultod, aeYel'&l other
iDltancee will at oncebe found where the nec.eity for continuOUll ~n
wu dilpeneed with, and where BUdden diftioulti. were overcome on the spot;
by Mr. Bglinton, lueh .. for inItance tile copy made on a traner-rent alate
of an underlying drawing. I know 'Very exactly how 1011& it wOllld
take an ordinary dtaught.man to make anch a corY, and what amODnt of
direct vimOll would be required to aee to traee, which combination of time
and mon Mr. Eglinton never attained.
I might go on to point oat innumerable other iDltancee where Mra..
Si.ick'a 'c:riticilm amount. to nothing leu than a ahirking of fllGtl ...
recorded. Knowing weU that othen will ha"e more And better worda to _y
on the aubject, but trallting I may at leut induce lome of Jour readera
to 1188 for theRllelYeI iDltead of accepting the verdict of lin. Sidgwick on
10 important a point,-I am,youn very truly,
J. MuJUU.Y TzMPLB'l'OK.
To tile .&lifol· of the JOURNAL or THB 80cDTY FOR PsYCHICAL RF.8BARL'JL
SIR,-May I be allowed a brief reply to the above reported remazb of
Mr. Myen on a part of my paper 7
For the point in qU8ltion. I am not at all concemed to dilpute the com-
pariaon with Socmtell, nor did Iluggelt, &I Mr. Myen appean to IUPpose I
did, that Mn. Sidgwick'i recognition of her own inadequate powen of
obaervation implied any illfel'jorif" in that reBTJOOt to the average of mankind.
Indeed, 111'&1 quite aware that Mn. Sidgwick had expreuly, and in the
lAme lentCnlce, included "othen" (the world in general) in her dilparage-
ment. But my argument only demanded that her aelf-eltimate Ibould be
fairly correct in the poItitille aenle in which Ihe wrote, and I wanted no
admi..ion of it from her in a COfI~p<lratille one. For if her aelf-eltimate iI
confirmed by the actual experience Ihe adducel in proof of it-with the
amateur Ilate.writing conjurer-Mn. Sidgwick may certainly be regarded &I
no better in respect (If continuous obaervation thall the majority of thOle who
witllell the pllollomclIlon of alate-writing with Eglinton. Her superiority,
arilinK from IOlf.knowledge,-her Socratic wiadbm,-wtluld conaiat in attaca-
ing little importance to her own evidence, but it would not prevent her
getting the evidence, for what it might be worth. The colljurer's ehanc.f
would be just R8 good with her 81 with othen. She would not be 10 much
inlprelBed by tile reBult, but would be quite &I unable to explain it by any-
thing actually observed. I was only meeting, by the cue of Mra. Sidgwick,
the luggeltioll that "Eglinton's failuree are due to the want of opportunity
with a few superior ohlerven. tTpon her own Ibowing, hil three failures
'with her could lIot be weU explained in that way.-Your obedient aervant,
C. C. MASSBY. !
Digitized by Google
