{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_sv_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria SV NDE 6881","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria SV NDE 6881  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria SV NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3442 Maria SV NDE 6881  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It happened while they were operating on me. 

I was tied up in a hard stretcher. My legs and wrists were tied. I needed to be tied because the cuts of the operation had to be perfect. Doctors explain this to me beforehand.

I was conscious at the beginning. I felt lot of pain because they were giving me too much anesthetic.

A sensation of nausea came to me after a while. I felt sick. I wanted to tell the doctors, but felt after many attempts that they were not hearing me at all. I was completely conscious.  I even tried to touch them, but as I was tied, I couldn't.

Later, I began to see all black and noticed I was being sent though a long tunnel. I could move my head and saw that I was wearing a long orange tunic. I said to myself, 'why?' That was strange for me because I remembered a nurse had given me a white one.

I felt no fear or pain. In a moment, I could see the colors of the tunnel. It had the same colors as a rainbow. I was surrounded by light that didn't disturb me.  On the contrary, it made me feel secure, at ease, and very much loved.

My body was as if I hadn't a body at all. It was so light. I couldn't feel any physical sensations. All sensations were turned into emotions or feelings. I opened myself to see and to guess where I was. I was very, very happy.  I didn't want to come back to my life.

It was a long journey around the universe.  I had finally arrived in the place I had been looking for. I was surrounded and flooded in white light that didn't make you blind.  The light opens our consciousness and was at the end of tunnel.  The light had a telepathic voice that connected with my heart. That same voice told me it wasn't my time. 

It said to me that I should go back.  But I refused to go.  So it began to tell me all the events that will come to my life.  It even told me that I never have been in love with a man on Earth and that I should come back now so I can do that.  It kept saying, 'you have a mission to accomplish and too many things to do.'

As I was obstinate to stay and didn't want to come to earth again, GOD in a kind of telepathy, put two pictures inside my mind. They were my children, two boys, and he told me their lives will be a disaster without my presence, guidance, and love. So, with no hesitation, I came back. I remember it like yesterday. I was bent crying and also knelt, begging to stay there, but the voice gave me advanced information about my future, and also extra knowledge, to make me come back to life.

When coming back, I was as if I had the power of seeing the real scenes without being there. I had a clear conscience.

I saw a doctor and nurses running here and there.  They were afraid and talking or shouting a lot.  Another doctor was at one side of my body, taking one of my wrist.  The other doctor was holding his head with both hands. I also saw my husband sitting on a bench, outside in the hall.  He was praying a Catholic prayer.

I had a kind of omnipresence.

After this, I woke up and images came into my mind at an incredible high speed. All the experience came, like a shock of reality. I asked immediately to see the doctor who was standing next to me what had happened.

He answered in a very low voice, 'you scared us! You had very low blood pressure. Less than four.'

My body was free from pain by that time. Later, my husband told me that the doctor who took his head went out and stood there against the door staring at him for a while, then told my husband. He assured me, the doctor told him, he would never operate on me again, because I had scared them so much.

I also remember I had changed completely. Little by little, time passed and I felt I was never again the same woman. I began writing poetry, praying a lot, and felt hell was on Earth. I became much more conscious about dangers on Earth. I began to face all the events that were happening to me, and also went to psychologist thinking I had become crazy. Even my husband thought I was crazy.

I wanted to die and come back to that place. I had no interest in life for nearly eight months so I had to go to a psychiatrist for one year. Little by little, I was accepting life as an island. I learned that my experience was meant to nourish my soul and change some wrong patterns I had before.

I have an increase in a special sense I have and also increased my perceptions and began to accept finally I had been given a gift or many gifts.

The ones today help me to improve every single situation of my life and personality.

I had to get divorced. I felt it. I wasn’t the same person anymore and felt I wasn't in love with my ex-husband. It was as if I came from death and ordered my life for good.

High perceptions are still growing and giving chances of meeting many people who lived through the same experiences as I did and do.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '26 of November,1996'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other: 'I told the Doctor I was dying during the operation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I was coming back from the tunnel, after having left it.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In that moment I was guided and my senses were in my heart. There were not any physical senses at all, because I had no weight in my body, no smells to smell. They were not needed or even altered. At the end, because I wanted to stay and the light told me to go back, I knelt down and I begged to stay and cried. I wanted to stay in there forever.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About 3pm I think, because I woke up at 4:30pm and surgery was at 1:30pm.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My sped up thoughts came in two occasions. When I was denying coming back that light made me see in high speed a picture of my two sons on Earth. When I woke up, I saw all events in my near death experience coming to my head at a very high speed again.  My thoughts in real life are and were matching with events, but very much slower. I don't know how to explain it more clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    First, there was a speed sound, like a high speed whistle, while my body was being ejected through the tunnel. The high speed or velocity was making long noises dying by the end of tunnel. As if in a car you were traveling light speed.  Then the voice of GOD, which was just like my own voice ran or transported by the light of GOD, spoke directly to my heart with all his knowledge, wisdom and love. He gave me knowledge also. He convinced me to come back to life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was long. The light was at the end. I was like surrounded by circles of light, all in different tones of light, like colors of a rainbow.  When I arrived at the end of it. I had the strong sensation it was longer and continued, as if at the end if I crossed the white light I was not to come back to earth again. The first tunnel travel is in a horizontal position, and second part of the trip in a vertical position. The light didn't let me transition, so I cried. The second part of tunnel was for me. And I also felt this second trip would be even faster.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   That light was like expanded. As if, there was life in that light. Love, knowledge, wisdom, everything we look for is there. It was like light of clouds when flying. They don't bother you, but are brilliant and radiant without making you close your eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The two flashes were the pictures of my kids.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There were pleasant sensations. At the end, I was crying in order to stay there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I have no time to think or ask myself. Everything was so vivid and pleasant. I had no need to pose questions to myself at that time. There were no needs at all.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     The voice told me my future. I just saw the two pictures of my kids, which the light put into my head so I could agree to come back.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     It was as if I had no limits.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   when I lived this experience I practise Catholicsm, it means I was goint to church form time to time  and i had strong faith in GOD,which I still have.  After the experience, Ifelt a big change inside me,I even thought i was getting crazy,I wanted to die again and come back to that peacefull and magic place I had been too,I had contacted GOD there,it was a strong light in every athom it contained strong vibe of love.So telephaty was the voice which went direct to my heart.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe and thank strongly GOD. Rituals may be practices or not, they are not needed when you are in love and in peace. I meditate and also bring peace and more joy to groups of people.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Now,for me all religions are equals,because men DIVIDED THE IDEA OF GOD,according to me.  GOD is just ONE and ALL. There are no divisions in human love for me. I can belong to any religion or to none. I feel free to love GOD,and I even dont need to belong to a group to do it,although I respect every point of view of all religions,. CATHOLISMS is in my life as part of my tradition, I dont feel the need even to practise mine inherited by family tradition.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was not having good relationship with my husband 4 years later i got divorced,I felt I went to the operation nervous and also without expectations,it all surprise me,a time after it, I was not happy ay all when this happened to me. I was having marital problems.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had a clearer understanding of what was good or bad for me and didn't let others make decisions for me. I realized my life was mine, not for others will. I became a determined and sure person.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     to perceive the other part of tunnel,crossing the light...how did i knew this...about kind of trip i knew if i cross that light i will be travelling in vertical  position of my bosy as if "being sucked by strong force of energy"

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     God taugh me, to know people from heart,to treat them with my heart,and also  felt the connection.  After the experience I came back so changed, that I even could  revert many difficult relations I had, with members of my family.  The way of treating them

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I always felt GOD exists so I felt i had the prove of existence.May be a prove I needed by that time of my life.It isn ot that i learnt about its existence just by the experience..i felt it before also.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the sensation and still have that I gain another kind of energy, or extra energy. Like if, I do blessings it is felt by the person. If I touch a person, I can feel what they feel or can guess easily what happened to him or her. I feel the need to help people with what they need or need to learn. I don't know why.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     all of us have a mission in life ,and come to accomplish it,but it will be accomplished if we do things we love and using our hearts while doing every little or big thing in life.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I never felt as if I  had sttoped living...I FELT AS IF I HAD JUST CHANGE THE PLACE and state of being alive. I didnt have concoiussness of a death ,end in my life or stop.  But felt like in a different dimention of existence.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I leant to live everysecond as last second and to give my 100%,to help others and to respect others as if they were me.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I had to become stronger to overcome difficulties which came later...and to have the conciousness of changing old patters also to help,to forgive and to love others...I bacame very much perceptive.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LOVE IS LOVE...may change shape and you may be alone but in love...with life and peple who sourround you,no matter if alone or not,I felt my love was expanded,that i can even love the opnes i dont know or never met. As if there is no  distinctions,much mo

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am very spiritual person but not a religious person. I changed a lot. I am more conscious about others needs and also their feelings. I am more considerate to others. I am much surer of my destiny and I don't ask people's opinions to live my life. I was scared of taking decisions before and now all these years after this experience I had to make strong and difficult decisions, and took them without hesitation and was responsible if I made a mistake.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Definitely for good. I am more sincere, more open, more direct, more natural, more believing, more sensitive, more considerate, and more brilliant in knowledge and other aspects of personality.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Just at the beginning. It was difficult to make my husband understand. I understood.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   it is shiking how many details i can remeber althougth many years passed and I remeber them as if they had been ocurred yesterday.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can read personalities very well or even feel death presences. Before I felt it also but didn't accept it. Now I feel energies easily as also the emotional state of people. There are many natural skills that came to my life after the experience. Also visions or dreams where I receive messages.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        These kinds of perception and the inner peace I got. The strong feeling of non-discrimination.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my husband, when he was my husband. He thought I was crazy. It hurt me a lot. With my mom. She believe me. And with the mother of the psychologist. She had a similar experience. This helped me a lot to accept it as a real experience. Later with many others who went through the same things I did.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Just heard, but didn't pay much attention. After this I bought all the books I found to help understand the process I had gone through.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I think I thought that because of my husband. He was influencing my thoughts with his opinions. Because inside me, I felt it was real. But fear of craziness made me think maybe it was not real. But when changes came to my spirit and feelings, I knew it was real. Like expansions of love, having more perceptions, and so on.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There was a big change inside me, and why was it related to spirituality? And not to music or other aspect of life? I had to grow and open my head. Definitely, it was real to me, because changes were for good, and other people felt similar to me. So these changes come to our lives to help us be better humans and to bring messages of this knowledge many people doubt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I wrote a book and told part of it. I always apply what I learnt with this experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I thank God to have been chosen or for giving me the opportunity to correct and improve myself for good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_sv_nde.html