{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mariana_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Mariana H NDE 6306","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mariana H NDE 6306  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mariana H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3100 Mariana H NDE 6306  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In December of 2009, my gall bladder began to feel bad; because of this my doctor decided on surgical intervention as soon as possible, so in a matter of days they prepared me for the surgery.  They intervened; I remember being afraid hours before the procedure of being in the operating room. They gave me the anesthetic, but there was no immediate effect; my left shoulder was hurting very much, they said they would administer more medication to remove the discomfort, which was a product of a gas that they use in laparoscopic surgeries.  All went well; without complications, only it left me with a dreadful pain in my head, I was told it was a result of the anesthesia. Two days later, I was discharged from the hospital. I was recuperating at my parent's house. 

I got myself up to have a bath, but the pain in my head was persisting, so I took my medications as I had been doing.  I noticed during the bath that I had a shaking in my neck and right arm, something that I could not control, but I thought what was happening to me was post-operation stress.  Only a couple of hours had passed when it happened, it was time to eat, I wasn't hungry but I took two bites, when I felt that I had a lump in my throat, something that would not allow me to swallow saliva. I noticed that my heart had totally and completely accelerated, I was having tachycardia and my blood pressure was incredibly elevated. I felt that my heart was going to explode at any moment.

I called my mother and my brothers who were present there. I decided to lie down and pray while the ambulance was arriving. Something was not well, I knew that, my heart continued beating very quickly; my mother, flabbergasted, did not know what to do. My brother was calling the ambulance; my niece was hiding my three-year-old son so that he wouldn't see the scene. My younger brother came closer to me, took my hand, told me to be calm, and to breathe. Then the ambulance came and it was then that I saw my body lying there, with a gaze fixed on a single point in the distance, pupils dilated, I wasn't blinking. 

Suddenly, I felt an electric discharge throughout my body, and the journey began. I left hearing, seeing, and feeling what was happening behind in the earthly plane. Then I saw that dark cone, it was short, and had light at the end. I travelled at an astonishing speed towards it. Suddenly I saw before my eyes a wide space, very, very illuminated, in very bright yellow and white tones. I felt a very strong hum, similar to those noises that hospital apparatuses make to mark a death or a cardiac arrest. It was then that I understood that I was dead; I remember having consciousness, and asking myself at the same time, ‘What's happening?  What is this? Is this death?’  

The music, almost celestial or angelic, sounded in the distance, but I was hearing it perfectly; it was beautiful.  I was feeling light, I was not seeing my body; it was like I only had my consciousness or mind. I felt as though I was flying, and the illuminated place seemed to move about like a carousel, or a movie that was playing slowly, but I was only seeing light, and hearing this beautiful music.  Besides that, there appeared before my eyes a harp in a resplendent, golden color that disappeared seconds afterward; the peace overcame me; it was a lovely feeling: tranquility, wanting to be there, I had no fear, nor sadness, nor memories. In this moment, facing my eyes, there appeared an enormous white wall as if to stop me and a straight black line appeared in the middle of it.

In seconds, I woke up and realized that the paramedics were attending to me; they lifted me into the ambulance, and I went to the hospital. They injected me with something to calm me and to re-establish my normal pulse.  Fortunately, they told me that it had only been an overdose of the medication, combined with caffeine.  Today, I am well, but I will never be able to forget this experience that definitely changed the fear that I had of death. I have shared my experience with all people that I could, because, truthfully, I know that something very, very lovely exists after life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  21 de diciembre del 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related. Drug or medication overdose    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Lost consciousness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remember having seen my body lying down with my eyes very open, and pupils very dilated, which my brother later corroborated as being exactly that way.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the strong hum like those that mark a flat line in hospital machines, I was made to understand that I was dying.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I consider it to have passed slowly, much slower than usual, I was feeling as if I was flying slowly and listening to the music slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the sense of vision, I think that it was made more vivid. I was seeing everything more clearly. This beautiful light was not hurting me, but I was not seeing this very brilliant tone as we would know the color white normally.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was superfine.  I have a problem with hypoacusia (hearing loss) in my right ear.  During the experience, I felt that I was hearing totally normally, as if I was not suffering from hypoacusia; the music that I was listening to was very delicate, soft. I was hearing it without difficulty.  It was a very beautiful music, something that I have not heard before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I only observed a dark, short cone very quickly; at the end there was a light; there was nothing else inside it, only darkness, but it did not make me afraid.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I observed a very brilliant light, in white tones, and a little bright yellow; it was a very lovely white that I had never seen.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     For me, it was mystical.  It was very bright, it was beautiful, and the music was incredibly beautiful; I remember seeing and hearing a bright harp in a brilliant yellow tone.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, tranquility, happiness, beauty: a desire to stay there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Before my eyes, there appeared something like a very big, white wall, and on it a big, straight, black line.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I, being Catholic, believed in the existence of a divine place after dying.  When this experience happened, it did not leave me with the slightest doubt of something beautiful existing afterwards.  Perhaps I could not see much, but the little that I did experience was enough for me to believe it.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     YO AL SER CATOLICA CREIA EN LA EXISTENCIA DE UN LUGAR DIVINO DESPUES DE MORIR, AL PASAR POR ESTA EXPERIENCIA NO ME QUEDA LA MENOR DUDA DE QUE ALGO HERMOSO EXISTE DESPUES, QUIZA YO NO PUDE VER MUCHO PERO LO POCO QUE VIVI ME BASTA PARA CREERLO.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Moderate changes in my life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     SOLO ESCUCHE LA MUSICA COMO ANGELICAL O CELESTIAL...CREO QUE ESO ME HACE PENSAR QUE DIOS EXISTE

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   In reality, since I did not see persons, or past deeds, or voices, nor could I ascertain beyond a doubt that I lived it, it makes me think that one can have something after death. The sense of love, which must be primordial, because at the end, we will live surrounded by it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     EN REALIDAD COMO NO VI PERSONAS, NI HECHOS PASADOS, NI VOCES, NO PODRIA ASEGURARLO SIN EMBARGO LO QUE VIVI ME HACE PENSAR QUE PUEDE HABER ALGO DESPUES DE LA MUERTE.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     SOLO EL SENTIDO DE EL AMOR....QUE DEBE SER LO PRIMORDIAL PORQUE AL FINAL VIVIREMOS RODEADOS DE EL.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     LO QUE VI ME TRANSMITIA AMOR..LO QUE VI ...ME TRANSMITIA AMOR...LO QUE ME HACE CREER EN EL COMO PUNTO FUNDAMENTAL DE LA VIDA.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was such a difficulty because I wanted to recount everything in an instant.  I don't know what the reason would be, but I wanted to recount it all without omitting a single detail.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   SON PRECISOS PORQUE RECUERDO MUY BIEN EL TONO DE BLANCO Y AMARILLO QUE VI, RECUERDO LA MUSICA, RECUERDO EL ORDEN SE LOS HECHOS..RECUERDO CON TODA CLARIDAD LA SENSACION QUE TENIA Y LO QUE PENSABA.....HAY COSAS QUE YA NO RECUERDO QUE PASARON ANTES DE LA EXPERIENCIA PERO ESO NO LO OLVIDO.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most significant part for me was when I heard the very strong hum, and immediately I understood that I was dying. It remained very, very etched in my mind.  I only listened to the music that was angelic or celestial music. I believe that this makes me think that God exists. What I saw conveyed love to me, which makes me believe in it as the fundamental point of life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it when I was in the hospital. I told it to my brother and my husband; they were left touched, surprised, and they had the face of incredulity.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only a little.  I knew that there had been people that had passed through this type of situation, seeing the tunnel, deceased persons, peace, and tranquility, but I did not really investigate it like I am doing now.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know how to say it, but I know that it was real, I knew it. I felt happy after having passed through something so unpleasant.  How could I feel happy?  I was feeling joy, peace, love, tranquility. I wanted to say it to the entire world, that something beautiful was there afterwards, I saw it that way.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now, I continue to see it as real because today I know that I was convulsing while I was visiting this place, I did not have earthly consciousness, and now that I read about the many people that have experienced this, many things coincide, but the feeling is the same, I believe it cannot be coincidence.  I am convinced that something more exists there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that everything elapsed very, very quickly; although it went quickly, for me it passed slowly and I much enjoyed it. That love and peace are in existence. I remember very well the white and yellow tone that I saw; I remember the music; I remember the order; I know the facts. I remember with total clarity the sensation that I had, and what I was thinking. There are things that I no longer remember that happened before the experience, but I do not forget this.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mariana_h_nde.html