{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2904","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n28_may_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N28 May 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. UVIlL-VOL. U. lI.t.l'I l888.
JOURNAL
01' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
"0If If BIf If I.
N_ Jlemben and AIIOCIa&eI••
x..unaof Council .• ••
Jtepon of 0eDeral HeeUug •• •• ••
JUftIl Tbeorlea ApIa . • •• . • ••
c- :a-lftd br lIae Uleru7 CoDlIDl~tee
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
ILutTXANN, DR. EDUARD VON, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
JANET, PROFESSOR PIERRE, Ha.vre, France.
MEMBERS.
Ross, A. GALT, 7, Edinburgh Terrace, Victoria Road, London, W.
STOGDON, JOHN COLE, M.A., 18, Olement's Inn, London, W.O.
ASSOCIATE.
PAa.
..186
..186
..Sfi8
..II1II
.. 1711
WITBBRBY, ARTHUR GEORGE, B.A., 117A, Earl's Court Road. S.W.
MEETING OF OOUNOIL.
At a meeting of the Council, held on the 3rd inst., the following
Members were present :-Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson,
O. C. Massey, J. H. Stack, and F. Podmore. Mr. J. H. Stack was
voted to the chair.
. The Minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed
as correct.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, of Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany, a.nd
Profesaor Pierre Janet, of Havre, were elected Corresponding
Members.
Two new Members and one new Associate, whose names and
addresses are given above, were a.lso elected.
The Council recorded with regret the death of the Hon. Mrs.
Alfred Lyttelton, an Associate of the Society.
In accordance with his request, it was agreed that the name of
Mr. A. W. Dobbie, of Australia, should be transferred from the list of
Members to that of Associates.
Presents to the Library were announced from Drs. Berjon and
R
Digitized by Google
266 Jourllal qf Society/or PS!lchicalResearcA. [May, 1888.
Burot, of Rochefort, and from Dr. Puel, of Paris, particula.rs of which
appear in the Supplementary Library Catalogue. The Council desired
to convey its thanks to the donors.
A vote of thanks was also passed to Miss Bertha Porter for a
donation of £5, in aid of the work of the Literary Committee.
The cash account for the preceding month was presented in the
usual form, and one account passed for payment.
The Council being informed that Professor Sidgwick desired to be
relieved of the Editorship of the Joumal, Mr. Edmund Gurney waa
elected to take his place.
The next meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the .th of
June, at •.30 p.m.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
Monday, May 3rd, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists.
Suffolk Street, Pall Mall.
In the absence of the President, the chair was taken by Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, who invited Mrs. Sidgwick to read her paper, "Results of a
Personal Investigation into the Physical Phenomena of SpirituaJism,
with some Critical Remarks on the Evidence for the Genuineness of such
Phenomena."
Mrs. Sidgwick explained that by the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism she meant those which, if correctly described and not due
to conscious or unconscious trickery, nor to hallucination on the part
of the observers, exhibit a hitherto unknown force acting in the
physical world, otherwise than through the brain or muscles of the
medium. They are thus distinguished from the automatic phenomena,
of which writing by the medium's hand, trance speaking. and table
turning with contact are examples. The list of physical pheno-
mena includes raps, movements of tables without contact, ma~
tiona, psychography, &c.
She stated that her own· experience in Spiritualism bad begun in
1874, but had been entirely inconclusive except in cases where it was
proved that the phenomena were due to the action of the medium.
She narrated some of her experiences, including series of seances with
Mrs. Jencken, Mrs. Fay, Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb, Mr. Bullock,
Mr. Williams, and Dr. Slade, and showed how she had obtained strong
circumstantial evidence of deception jn the case of Miss Wood, direct
proof of jt in that of Mr. Bullock, evidence pointingstrongly to it in the
case of Mrs. Fay and Mr. Williams, and good reasons for a.ttributing
Dr. Slade's performances to Conjuring. She concluded the first part
of her paper with an account of some .nces with Mr. Huby, at which
Digitized by Google
KaT,I886.1 Journal of &cietU lor P.!/cAicallle8earcll. 267
he was seen himself acting the part of a spirit which professed to
materialise and demateriaJise outside the cabinet.
In the second part of her paper Mrs. Sidgwick went on to discuss
various causes of error. She did not believe that hallucination-i.e.,
perception without objective counterpart, which is an explanation of
what is seen at sh.nces suggested by v. Hartmann and others-bad
ever occurred at 8I!ances within her experience ; but she thought the
erroneous interpretation of what is perceived-a mistaking of what is
inferred for what is actually seen, was very common. She said that
from what she heard and read, she believed this often occurred in the
recognition of friends and relations in the Ie materialised" forms. She
adduced a few examples, and gave arguments from the history of spirit-
photography pointing to the same conclusion, and also stated that
it was often too hastily assumed from appearances that the form could
DOt bethe medium disguised.
Proceeding to conjuring of a less special kind, she said that from
many accoun~ of Spiritualistic samces it was obvious that sufficient
precautions had not been taken to exclude it, and that in others the
absence of any mention of such precautions suggested. that they bad
not been taken. But even cases which as described seemed inexplicable,
could not prove anything unless a very wide margin for conjuring were
allowed,since conjuring tricks, as described, were also often inexplicable.
She thought the fact that leading Spiritualiata had avowed a belief
that certain conjurers were mediums, proved that they underrated the
possibilities of conjuring. A wide margin not only for conjuring, but
for mistakesand mal-observation arising from other causes, was required
all the more because the evidence was BO seldom experimental-that is,
the observer BO seldom knew beforehand what would be the precise
phenomena and conditions. She thought the arguments used to
prove that with mediums phenomena were obtained under conditions
more unfavourable to trickery than with conjurers, were fallacious,
and that on the contrary conjurers could only compete on equal
terms with mediums if they too were allowed to fail whenever they
pleued, and if they too were observed by witnesses doubtful as to the
Jlature of the performance. Sho described BOme experiences in slat&
Writing which she and friends of hers bad had with an amateur conjurer,
IIlder the same conditions as Dr. Slade, and which bad seemed at the
time inexplicable. These bad been very valuable to her, not only in
confirming her view about the wide margin required for conjuring, but
also in showing her how very limited were her own powers of
eontinuous observation-a lesson she bad already partially learnt with
Dr. Slade.
Mrs. Sidgwick said that two arguments against the reality of the
R 2
Digitized by Google
268 JOflrnal oj'&Ciet!llor P8!1ckical Re&earch. [May, 1886.
physical phenomena of Spiritualism gained in force every year. These
were (1) the absence of phenomena about which there could be no
question of conjuring, and (2) the fact that almost every medium who
had been prominently before the public had been detected in fraud.
Nevertheleas, Mrs. Sidgwick said that she thought there was some
evidence which could not be neglected, and which formed a primdf~
case sufficient to make it our duty to seek for mol'et but she thought.
it waste of time to seek it with established or professional mediums,
under the conditions at present imposed.
In conclusion, she urged those who might find in themselves or
their friends the beginnings of .. medi11Dlship," to approach the subject
with as little prejudice with regard to the conditions under which
phenomena will occur as poBBible. It is certain that there has been a
great deal of very hasty assumption about these conditions, and as
preconceived ideas in this matter have, on psychological grounds, &
tendency to work themselves out, it is important to keep as free as
possible from any not absolutely true. It is probable that many of
the conditions supposed to be necessary, and which complicate and
increase the difficulty of the inYestigation, have been invented merely
to facilitate trickery.
At the close of the paper some questions were asked with the view
of eliciting further details concerning Mrs. Sidgwick's experiences with
the conjurer, and Mr. F. W. H. Myers then gave a brief account of
some experiments in mesmerism at a distance which he and his
brother, Dr. Myers, had recently witnessed in France.
Mr. E. M. Clissold described an experience of his own in mes-
merising at a distance; and then, referring to Mrs. Sidgwick's paper,
said that whilst recognising her evident sincerity and h~nesty of
purpose, he could not but be struck with the meagre results obtained,
after so many patient and laborious investigations. He accounted for
this by supposing that in this branch of inquiry something more is
required of the investigator than candour and ability. He asserted
that in consequence of some want of natural mental or spiritual
power, a person otherwise adequately endowed might be unable to
verify a single spiritual phenomenon. He reminded tile audience tbat
no amount of negative evidence could weaken one fact honestly and
fairly obtained; and he claimed that there was abundant and ever-
accumulating evidence in favour of the genuineness of many of the
alleged tacts.
Mr. Bidder o~iected to the results obtained by Mrs. Sidgwick
being described as of a negative character. In his opinion they were
very positive indeed-a.s to impostllre.
The meeting then assumed a conversational character.
May,I886.] Journal 0/ Societ!l/or P8!1cAicai &&etJrch. 269
RIVAL THEORIES AGAIN.
By TO HON. RoDEN NOBL.
A. the Editor permit. me a few more worda on the aubject of my
controveray with Mr. Myen, I .bould like to .y fint that Mr. Myen,
.though lively and amuaiDg, perhaps permit. himaelf a little too freely to
,make mere banter do duty for aerioua criticiam. Thia method baa led to
aome grave miarepreaentation (of coone due to miaundentandiDg) of my own
poaition. Mr. Myen object. atrongly to my uae of the WON" intuition."
I have uaed, it aeema, the .me term for the ordinary perception of an
external world, and for the inward viaion of Been. Well, I think it ia a very -
aood word for immediate unreuoned knowledge, or belief; and my reading
of philoaophybaa taught me that it ia 80 undentood byatudenta of pbiloaophy
in general. I apoke of the viaiona of Been, auch aa St. Tbereaa, St. Catherine,
St. John and St. Paul, of their conviction of the objective reality of thoae
who had appeared and communicated revelationa to them, urging that
Mr••yen' phyaiological diagrama, mapping out the brain, with algebraical
formube appended, did not Beem to explain away aucb a conviction, which I
called an •• intuition" on the part of auch great revealen ; to whom, after all,
we do owe a few trifting benelite, luch aa Biblea, religiona, and aocial
reformations. For I argued that if phyaiology doea not explain ordinary
)Ieftleptiona, no better can it explain abnormal pe1'C8Ptiona. And now Mr.
Myers 811ure8 me that when I uk him if he thinka phyaiology clbea explain
perception, I might u well uk him whether he thinka the moon ia made of
green cheeae. Well, I am extremely glad to bave elicited thia cooleaaion
from him, but then I await alao with ,8Ome intereat the aupplementary
information which aeema needed, u to why he makea the diagrama, and
invent. the formulAe. Of coune I have no objection. Indeed, it pleaaantly
reminda me of the School Board, and elementary text-boob.
But I admit that, perhaps, Mr. Myen makea "a hit, a palpable hit,"
when he cbaffa me about the " common-aenae of madmen." I own that doea
lOund atartJing! and I am not 80 aore of my right application of thia term
~ their cue. It appeared to me, however, that it 1t'U applicable to any
1UlreaIoned and immediate conviotion of the objectivity and extemality
of any aenaible pe1'C8pt. I argue that dreama (at the time of dreaming) and
abnormal viaiona have all the p8Jchological oharacteriatica of a normal
)Ieftlept, and probably the phyaiological alao-.ve, indeed, one, the agree-
ment of waking and normal perceiven. But on that exception I remarked
(a remark of which Mr. Myen tuea no notice) that theae abnormal aeen
being admittedly in a di1I8rent mental condition or aphere, the agreement
of normal and waking penona in their pe1'C8ptiona can hardly be expected ;
you might aa well wait for the general conaent of blind men to the aeeing of
colour, or of dreaming penona before allowing the objective validity of
normal waking pe1'C8pt.. Now, I intend theae remarka aerioualy; they are
not mere _rtiona; though I can aaaore Mr. Myen I do not wiah to be
dogmatic; but they are poaitiona which I have uaed argument (bad or' good)
to maintain, and therefore 1 do not recogniae mere jokea, however lively,
M a valid an.wer. And really the joke about the madman who believea
himaelf the Archangel Michael ia no anawer at all, even aa a reductio ad
Digitized by Google
270 Journal qf &ciety ffn' P'1lcMetll Raeareh. (May. 1886.
ablurd1lm, because it altogether ignoree my point: I did not say tha~ the
convictions of madmen, or anybody elM, were neceuari1y true (otherwise I
should have to admit that the II8OOndary-self theory of Mr. Myen ia 80,
which I do not I). But I Buggested that when a madman, or a delirious
penon, baa what we (from our point of view, and quite conveniently) call and
may call "hallucinations of sense," and when a dreamer h88 distinct per-
ception in dreaml, it ia diffioult to prove that whereas our percepta haye
objective validity, and are eztenlGZ to our inditridual IMltlU, his are no such
thing. And for this propoaition I gave reasons (valid or invalid).
We do not depend on the agreement of otben for our conviction of au
object'B externality,aeeing that, in qmer to consult them,we muat firatfUIIWIU
their extemality to ounelves; though we may modify our impreaioD of tDIw.U
an object ia by their verdict concerning it, 88 alao by teate, which our 01rll
judgment may deviae.
But I have several Btrings to my bow! Mr. Myen only one to his! The
strange «Ue•.fizu of madmen I have luggeated (by analogy of the facta re-
oently brought to light in conneotJ.on with meameriam) may with high pro-
bability be auigned to the domination of ideas impreeaed on them by unseen
intelligent agenta, perhapa not more neceuari1y evil and malioious than the
French meameriat, who impreeaad on the clairvoyante that Bhe muat shoot;
her own mother.
The dilturbanoe. or abnormal condition of the brain oe1Ia, or of the blood,
may very well aceompGny any Buch payohica1 agency ; but I hope we are
now agreed that it CICCONnh for nomoretbandoeatheir normalcondition , Mr.
Myen sayl he does not admit that spirita influence even lOme dreams,
only that minda of other penons do." But by a" Bpirit" I meant
a penon, or indiridual polll8ll88d of a mind; I called him a" Bpirit,"
because I BUPpose biB body of flesh and blood ia not concerned in
BUch dream-influence. Nor did I argue that because BOme dreams are
thus produced, all must be. 1 only said that the influence of a virtuall;y
disembodied Ipirit on dream W88 now proved to be a ftf'CI c«uaa. and
that (withou~ prejudice to brain centrea and neneB, &c., which are no
Bufficient cause of dream) hence it became an entertainable hypotb8lil,
in the absence of a better, thatall dreams might be thua originated; though
no doubt the ciramatiaing faculty of the a1eeper must aIao be taken into
account. After all, recollect that even where we only fancy, invent.
remember, thil prior sense-perception iaimplied 88 material for reconaVuc-
tion.by the mind. Surely the object ilBtill there, preHt~ in lOme 1ItI.., if it
ever waB at all ; even though Mr. Myen should:not accept exactly my repre-
Mntation of what il involved in memory. By the way. I have found out;
that Fechner h88 avery Bimilar conception tomine ill hia "Lifo after Deaih":
BO he il one .. eminent philoaopher" to the good, Iluppose! There iI Btill all
influence from other mindl; leein! that .. objeota" can only be concepts in
BOme mind; 80 idealism teacheB. Individualaco-operate in all thought; for an
• All ,batI undlll'lltand Mr. My8l'll to regard as yet proved, is that CelepUhy
oocars be$ween perIOII8 in ~e body. We shoUld not be J"Ultified in ...wning from
this, without further evidence, that the "body of fleah an bloodis not OODcenuid," far
if iswere true that the imprel8ion is transmitted by "braia wav.," braina woalcl be
ftquirecl in ~e ~.-KD.
Digitized by Google
May, l886.] JouNUlI Qf &eiet!! for P8l/Mical Re8earch. 271
thought is universal, aa well aa pa...
..icular; but itis particularly obvil)1III and
certain iathe caseof_-perception,whel't.' extemali~ to the individual is the
primal poetulate and distinctive feature. I think that here we get BOrne clue,
however, to the puzzling fact that there are degrea of distinct perception,
that fancies may gradually paas into perceptiODl, aa lOme of the inatanoes of
ao-called hallucination, collected by our Society, tend to ahow : they do BO in
the cue of BOmnambules, and biol<>gised perBODB under dominant suggestion
from without. The degree of subjectivity, and objectivity, may, no doubt,
however, vary in a perception ; that is, the investing, inventing, dramatising
facul~ of the individual may contribute more or leaa to the result in any
given case ; a percept may be transferred froin another mind, ready made.
or the raw materials of it, to be worked up in you, or me. But what I
suspect is "that when it is vividly real and objective, it must be
almost equally the aame in another mind, and Mared. At any rate.
I think there is no suoh self·sundering in dream as Mr. Myers
alleges. For hia secondary self is assumed to have a 8Ubjective e:rperience of
ita OWIl, flOt Mared by the primary. But in (I dream that i3 not 30:* the
dream persona we fancy (if they are not real persona, as I suggest) have
likewise no subjectivities of their own ; they are exhausted, I mean, by the
pictures we frame of them, by the replies they make to 1111, or the questions
they ask: what is behind that is (mly our Otl1l} comprehetl8ion, and heariflg of
that; our ordinary one subjectivi~ is enongh for them, and they have no
other; this is true o.lBO of the drarrwatil peraonre of a poet. But Mrs.
Newnham's second self is supposed to hear and digest questions put, and
think outthea1lllwers before ahe answers, while Mrs. Newnham's primary
self writes and reads them. Hamlet is not thinking about the murder of
his father unknown to Shakespeare, though Shakespeare may imagine such
thought in the character of Hamlet which he baa conceived ; and the
dreameronly hears questions put, or remarks made, or questions answered
by lOme person he imagines; that person is not thinking these out in a sub-
jectivi~ of" his own (that is, if Mr. Myers' theory of his being only an
invention of the sleeper be correct); hence he gets no help for the
aecondary self he wants in the Newnham case from this BOUrce, even though
my suggestion be incorrect, that the penonages of a dream·drama may
be distinct individuals. In a dream we retain our own individuality,
seeing and hearing ourselves, and conversing with other peraons, aa in every-
day wakiDg hours.
The instance of the schoolboy cited in a note by Mr. Myers is,
of course, familiar to everybody. Truly the answer to a problem flash.
ing on him in the midst of another train of thought, like inspirations of
genius, aeema to be from the •• unconscious." But the only question is,
10hat iI it. real e:eplaMti<m ~ My objection was not to the second term in
Mr. Myers' phrase, " unconscious ideas," but to the first, my position being
tJuat there is and can be flO "unconscious" ; and that the unconscious can no
aore pour" matured ideas " into the conscious mind than we can paaa over
• Our cbeam pen!OIIIII8II often rep!y to us in a way that we do not expec*, and
utter ideu that are novel and Il111'naing to us. I take Mr. Myers' view to be that in
IDJ8t _ such ideas haveworked themselves out in our own minds unCOlUlCiously
&0 wnelves.-ED.
gitized by (.oogI
2':"2 Joumalof 80ciety for P,yclHcal RuMrci. [May, 188111.
Westminster Bridge to Chriatmas Day, for it cannot have ideas, and if it
could, could not transfer them to COJUlCioWJJl8111. What U a matured. UD-
~JUlCioua idea1
I suggest the tranacendent self, which is fully coJUlCioua, or aome other
mind, as the more probable origin.
But is the dream-world 10 much leu real than this 7
II Where nothing i. but all thiDp IfIIID,
And we the ahad01n of the dream."
Nay, "we are lIuch stuft' as dreams are made on," and in that sleep, with
which" our little lives are rounded," as even now, no~ seldom, in the uightly
sleep, may we not find ourselves in a world more real even than the
apparent world of every day, a world of stara, which we caonot see for
sunlight 7
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Oontintud. )
[The Litero.ry Committee 1ciU be glad UJ naive tcell autheliticaUd t'Cidenu of
phenomena belonging UJ any oj the Jollot./Jing clauu, apecime",.. oj .micA an
Jrom time UJ time recorded in thia Journal:
L. Phantamaa oj the Li17"lg.
O. Phantaam. oj the Dead.
M. Hypnotum, Mumeriam, and ClaiJ'1!Oyaliu.
P. Monition alld Premonition.
S. MiIIcellaneoUl phenomena .oj the kind BOmetimu ducribed aa
" Spi,itualiatic."
Per&OJw experiencu oj "ae11B01-Y haUucitUltiotl.l" oj any aort will alao
be welcome.
Communications in.tended Jor the Literary Committee .hould be addTUted
to Edmun.d Gurney, EIq., 26, Montpelier-lqUare, London, B. w.; or, to
Frederic W. H. Myer., EIq., LedcJw,mptot, HOUle, Cambridge.]
0.-642
. The following narrative was sent by Mr. C. Fi~rald, 89, Tachbrook-
.treet, S.W., whouys:-
March 'ltA, 1880.
I lend you my own ghOlit story, rather hurriedly written, but 1 lhink full
in its details.
My friend B. is, I undentand, in England, but I c&nnot find out his
Mdreuyet.
I refrain from giving names in full, as many of tlle young girl's relatives
are alive and here in England.
In 18611 wae stationed with my regiment at N., one of the B. Ialanda
One Saturday evening, in company with ODe of my brother offieen, I hM
been spending the evening at the house of one of our friends, and we rE-
turned to our quarters about 11 o'clock, together.
The building in which our quarters were, stood alone in rather e.xteDli'118
May, 188G.] JONI'MI qf &cietufor P'1lchica1 RaMrM. 273
grounds, and at Bight the only aocea tp the baUding wu by a door at the
aut aide of the houe, at which a sentry wu always poeted. There wu a
Ihort flight of ate~ from the gro1J'!1d to thisdoor. About midway down the
pIIIIge 1t'U a flight of ~ leading to the upper floor, where our quarters
LOWER FLOOR.
N
Steward'. pantry I_I Meu
I I
rl room r-
-
I-- - -- E
....
I r1111111111111 I +
Billiard·room .Ante room
s
UPPER FLOOR.
Verandah
:
W~I
. A
.
fU
.
TableO
.
.
.
Pantry I: I CUpbOBld
...-:7:.- - - -
.
. 1111111111111 !1III
.. I I
Bedroom Bath-room
p Z
0
W Balh-room Bedroom
I I
0
A Door always clOled.
were. On reaching the top my companion and myself parted for the night,
I to write lOme letters for the nex~ day'a poet in the front room on the weat
aide, he to his bedroom on the eut aide at the back of the houae.
I had only been a abort time writing when the figure, almost transparent,
of a young girl with her face turned from me, entered the room from the
.eraodah, and puaed through in the way indicated by the dotted line. She
Digitized by Google
274 Journal qf 8ocitJIgfor P'!lcAical ReaeDro". [May, 1886.
had long very light flowing ringlets, CIU'1'ieda broad.brimmed straw hat IIUlI-
pended by the ribbons, on her right ann, anda bouquet of flowen in her left
hand. I watched the figure with curioeity, wondering what it meant. At
the moment it went out of the door*, my friend, whom I will call B., came
out of his bedroom into his sitting-room. He remained only a few inatant&.
On coming out of his sitting-room into the puaage he stopped and called
out, .. I say, F., who is that girl that came out of your room just now'"
to which I replied, .. No one came ou~ of my room," at the same time
getting up and going into the paaaage, where I met him near the door*.
He insisted that he had seen a girl come out of the room, and thought ahe
mnat have gone into the bedroom Z. We went in, but finding no one there.
looked into the bath-room W, butfound that empty. We then returned to
the paaaage and called out to the sentry at the door at the head of atepa on
the lower floor, asking if he had· seen anyone come in before we had.
answoring the description of the girl seen, or since we had come in_ He
said he had not. B. and myself then agreed to call on an old lady who had
beena long time resident in the Island, next day, Sunday, and tell her what
had occurred. We did so, and learned that a young girl answering the
description given, had died in the house some yean before, at about 18
yean of age; and that she was reputed to have haunted the house since.
I subsequently saw a miniature painting of the young lady, correspond-
ing, as far as the hair was concerned, with the fignre I had seen go through
my room.
I may say that both myself and my friend B. were very abstemioDL
G.-476-Collective.
From a lady who desires that names may not be published.
9tI& June, 1885.
I.
•Our mother died while we were all very young; and as I, the fourth
child of seven, was the eldest living daughter, I became early acquainted
(from my eighth year) with sorrow of variona kinds and degrees, principally
caused, however, by the harahneaa and frequent neglect of housekeeper and
servants towards my baby brother and sister. The two eldest boys-between
whom and myself was a gap of some years, were almost always away from
home, and ultimately went abroad, so that from the time I was quite a
little child I was continually with my father, who nlade much of me, and at
last I became his constantcompanion. He never married again. and our
love was probably, therefore. a closer union even than commonly exists
between a father and daughter while the latter is of tender yean. It was a
great pain to me ever to be away from him, especially after my 14th
year. at which time he began to make me his conJidanteas well as companion;
and we had frequent earnest talks and diaaUllliona on many subjects. At
length, when I was about 18 yean old, a terrible grief befell DB, viz..
the death of my two elder brothen within a few weeks of each other, while
they were still abroad.
Myfather's sorrow was great; and at the same time he became aerioualy
Digitized by Google
.1,1886.] JotWnfIlof Society.for P8ychical Raetwch. 276
t.roubled with many doubt. regarding vario118 point. of Chriatian faith, and
80 gradually loItnearly all hia buOJ&llCJ of spirit, and became sadly depreued
and worn-looking, though only 48 yean old. For a year he thus sdered,
when it wu arranged that, 10 BOOn u he could plan to leave home, he should
go to lOme I81Hide place, and tr;y what new aoenes would effect. He also
pamuaded-nay, inBiated-that I should go away for awhile, without waiting
for him, and accompany lOme friends to South neV'onahire.
This I did that same Bummer, 1863. All hia letten to me after I left him
were bright and loving_ying but little of hia health-aa he and all of 118
regarded hia ailment to be.more mental than physioal.
. One morning, September 25th, after waking early from a very singular
8IId troubled dream, I found. BOme ht,U1'B later, on my brea.kfaat plate,
among other letters, one in a Btrange hand, which I saw on opening to have
beau written by an uncle, related to me by marriage, but not known to me
personally. He said that my father had set out on hia long-talked-of tour,
and had gone to Dorking for the sake of visiting him and other old friends
there, before proceeding to the cout; but he wu far from well, seemed
mach depreaaed, and ...... continually talking of me. My uncle advised that
I ahould join him at Dorting U BOOn u pouible. and then ponuade him to
go to Scarborough, u the moat bracing place he (my uncle)could think of.
In half an hour I was in the coach, travelling to HoBiton, the nearest
railway Btation, and reached Dorking late in the evening.
My father wu dead I He had Buddenly fainted in the moming while
talking to my aunt; had only roused Bufliciently to 0811 me by name several
times, and then died, apparently uncoDICious that anyone wu with him.
It would make this narrative too tedious to you were I to relate how a
preBentiment of Buch a terrible pouibility had weighed upon me all day,
• and prevented my yielding to a strong girlish temptation to purchue, during
my journey,many delicacies displayed in the railway refreshment-rooms,which
I thought he might like. Neverthel8BB the blow wu too heavy for me to
find relief in tears, and tho agony of heart wu 80 intenae that even
DOW I recallit with a sense of physical pain.
I went early to bed, to escape the presence and sympathetic ministrations
of the many in that kind houaehold who gathered around me ; and by my
own choice I ahared the room of a motherly-looking p8l'BOnage, whom I
supposed to be my cousins' nU1'B8, She occupied the larger bed in the room,
and I a IIIIl81ler one placed at aomo distance from hen. She was BOOn weep
and breathing heavily; but I wu lying in deepest anguish, beset not only
with the grief at the Budden 1088 Bustained, but with the wretched fear that
my beloved father had died too suddenly to find peace with God, regarding
those miserable doubt. that had 80 troubled him. Aa the night woro on,
the pain of heart and thought grew wone and wone, and at length I knelt.
in prayer, earnestly pleading that my diatreaafnl thought. might be taken
away, and an aBBuraDce of my father'B peace be givOD me by God's mOBt
Holy Spirit. No immediate relief came, however, and it wu early dawn
when I rose from my kneoa, and felt that I mUBt be patient and wait for the
anawer to my pnyer.
Now a longing Buddenly seized me to creep into that kind-faced woman's
bed, and to feel perhape leBB lonely there. Her bed was opposite a
Digitized by Google
276 Journal of Bocietulor PS!lchical Rueare". [May, 1886.
window, over which a white blind was drawn, and as I softly lifted the bed-
clothes and II&t for a moment after drawing my feet up into the bed, 1
noticed the pale dawn feebly lighting up the window, and the movement -of
a little bird on the aill outaide ; but the room itaeIf was as yet almoet dark.
I was juat about to alip quietly down into the bed, when on the oppoeite
aide of it (that on which the nuree was aleeping) the room became auddeuly
full of beautiful light, in the midat ofwhich atood my father,abaolutely traD8-
figured, clothed with brightneaa. He alowly moved towarda the bed, raiaiDg
hie banda, as I thought, to clasp me in hie &rIII8; and I ejaculated: "Father!"
He replied, "Bleaaed for ever, my child I For ever bleaaed I" I moved to
climb over nuree and kiu him, reaching out my anna to him; but with a
look of mingled aadneaa and love he appeared to tloat back with the light
toward. the wall and.wu gone I The Mon occupied so abort a time t.hat.
glancing involuntarily at the window again, I II&W the moming dawn and the
little bird juat as they had looked a few minutes berore. I felt aure that God
had vouchaared to me a wonderful viaion, and was not in the leaat afraid,
but, on the contrary, full of a joy that brought flooda of grateful tears, and
completely removed all anguiah except that of having loet my father from
earth. I o1Fer no explanation, and can only lI&y moat &imply and truthfully
that it all happened juat as I have related.
You may find a solution to the occurrence in the aympathy which had
exiated between my dear father and myaelf; or, as frienda have often
insiated, in the condition of excitement and exhauation which I waa au1Fer-
ing at the time; but after all these yean of life and experience, the memory
of that wonderful moming ia ever vividly fresh, and real, and tnu.'
The writer'a huaband adda:-
, The narrative, as related above, ia aubatantially the lI&me given to me by
Mra. P. as early as 1865, and at aubaequent period&..
W. B. P.
JUfIe 17th, 1885.'
And Dr. and Mn. C., referred to above, write:-
.' 16U, JtCt&e, 1885.
The preceding narrative was related to ua by Mra. P., aubatantially ..
here recorded, lOme four or five yean ago.
II.
JAKBS O.
ELLEN H. C.'
•In the year 1867 I was married, and my huaband took a houae at
S--, quite a new one, juat built, in what was, and atill ia probably,
called "Cli1F Town," as being at a greater elevation than the older part of
the town. Our life was exceedingly bright and happy there until towards
the end of 1869. when my huaband'a health appeared to be failing, and' he
grew dejected and moody. Trying in vain to ascertain the cauae for thia.
and being repeatedly uaured by him that I was "too fanciful,II and that
there was "nothing the matter with him,II I ceased to vex him with
questions, and the time paued quietly away till Chriatmaa Eve of that
year (1869).
Digitized by Google
Kay, 1S86.) Journal of &cietgfor P8!1cllicniRsuarcll. 277
An uncle and auut lived in the neighbourhood, and they invited us to
spend Chriatmu Day with them-to go quite early in the morning to
breakfaat, accompanied by the whole of our amall houaehold.
We arranged therefore to go to bed at au early hour on the night of the
24th, 10 aa to be up betimea for our moming walk. OoDlequently, at 9
o'clock we went upatain, haviug aa usual carofully attended to ban and
bolts of doors, and atabout 9.30 were ready to extinguisbed thelamp; but our
little girl-a baby of 15 mouths-generally woke up at that time, and after
drinking lOme warm milk would aleep again for the reat of the night; and,
as Ihe had not yet awakened,I begged my husband to leave the lamp burning
and get into bed, while I, wrapped in a dreaing gown, lay on the outside of
the bed with the coton my right hand. The bedatead faced tho fireplace,and
nothing ltood between, but a I8ttee at the foot of .the bed. On either
lide of the chimney wu a large l'8C8III-the one to the left (&I we faced in
that direction) having a cheat of drawers, on which the lamp was ltanding.
The entranee door W&l on the aame aide of the room &I the head of the bed
and to the ltit oj it-facing therefore the l'8C8II of which I lpeak. The door'
was locked ; and on that same lide (to my left) my hUlband waa lying, witll
the curtain drawn, towarda which his face wu turned.
Roughly, the position W&l thUl-
- Furniture
Door
-
Bed [I Set*
I~I Bay Window
1_,--/_1
,-
,-
[
0
J
Draweraand
Lamp
Chimney
Arm-cbair
Furniture
As tho bed had curtains only at the head, all before us W&l open and
dimly-lighted, the lamp being turned down.
This takea lOme time to describe, but it 'W&I still just about 9.30.
Gertrude not yet awake, and I just pulling myself into a half-sitting posture
against the pillows, thinkingof nothing but the arrangements for the follow-
ing day. when to my great utonishment I saw a gentleman standing at the
foot of the bed,dreaaed as a naval (.fReer, and witll a CAp on his head baYing a
projecting peak. The light being in the position which I have indicated, the
face W&l in shadow to me, and the more 10 that the visitor W&l leaning upon
his arms which reated on the foot-rail of the bedstead. I was too &ltonished
to be afraid, but simply wondered who it could be ; and, instantly touching
my huaband'sllhouldor (whOle face was turned from mol I said, .. Willie.,
Digitized by Google
278 JouNlal QfSociet!lfor P8!1cllical &8tarck. [loIa1,1886.
who is this 7" MV huabanci tumed, and for a second or two lay looking in
intenl8 astonishment at the intruder; then lifting hi_If a little, he
shouted " What on earth are you doing here, sir'1" Meanwhile the form,
alowly drawing himaelf into an upright position, now said in a commanding,
yet reproachful voice, " Willie I Willie I"
I looked at my huabandaud saw thathiB face was whitea.nd agitated. AI
I turned toWardl him he sprang out of bed as though to attack the man, but
stood by the bedaide as if afraid,or in great perplexity,while the figurecalmlJ
and Ilowly moved totccmlI fJ&e wall at right anglea with tbelamp in the direc-
tion of the dotted line. As it palled the lamp, a deep ahadow fell upon the
room as of a material pe1'8On Ihutting out the light from UI byhis intervening
body, and he dilappeared, as it were, into the wall. My hUiband now, in a
very agitated manner, caught up the lamp, and tuming to me said, .. I mean
to look all over the hoUle, and aee where he is gone."
I was by this time exceedingly agitated too, but rememberfug that the
door was locked, and that the myaterioUi vilitor had not gone toWaMa it at
all-remarked" He baa not gone out by the door \" But without pauaing,
my hUlband unlocked fJ&e door, baatened out of the room, and was lOOn aearoh-
ing the whole hoUle. Sitting there in the dark, I thought to myself, "we
have surely seen an apparition I Whatever can it indicate-perhaps my
brother Arthur(he was in the navy. and at that time on a voyage to India)
is in trouble: such things have been told cf as occurring." In some auch
way I pondered with an anxioUi ht'art, holding the child, who just then
awakened, in my arms, until my hUiband came back looking very white and
miBerable.
Sitting upon the bedside, he put hiB arm about me and said, "Doyoo
know what we have seen 7" And I said .. Yel, it W8I a spirit. I am afraid
it was Arthur, but could not see his face"-8Jld he exClainled, U Oh \ no, it
was my fat.herl"
Now you will say thia iB the atrangeat part of tIle story, and unpre-
cedented. And what could have been the reason of such an ap-
pearance 1
My huaband's father had been dead (ourUm year. : he had been a naval
officer in his young life; but, through ill health, had left the I8rvice before
my hUiband was bom, and the latter had only Ol1ce or twice seen him iB
uniform. I had never Been him at all. My hUiband and I related the occur-
rence to my uncle and aunt, and we all noticed that my huaband's agitation
and anxiety were very great: whereas hiB UlUal manner was calm and
reserved in the extreme, and he was a thorough and avowed sceptic in all-
so-called-8upernatural events.
As the weeks palled on my hUiband became very ill, and then gradually
diacloaed to me that he had been in great financial difficulties; and that, at
the time his father was thUi sent to UI, he was inclining to take the advice
of a man who would certainly-had my hUiband yielded to hOO (as he Mel
intended before hearing the waming voice)-have led bim to ruin, perhaps
11'01"18. It is this fact which makea UI moat reticent in speaking of the event;
in addition to which, my husband had already been led to speculate upon
certain Chancel which reaulted in failure, and infinite sorrow to 13 both 81
Digitized by Google
May, 1886.] Journal of 8ociet.'1 for PS!lchical Researcl,. 279
well 88 to others, and waa indeed the cause of our coming to ---, after a
year of much trouble, in the January of 1871.
In the earlier part of this long letter I have given you the addre88 of
my un~e," to whom we gave a full description of the facts the morning after
their oecurrence; but he WIUI-and is-a great sceptio in all such matters,
and, probably, through not being in my busband's confidence regarding his
eircumstanoes, and therefore seeing no feasible reason for such a mani-
festation of God's power and love, he waa the more incredulous.
Up to that date my husband, too, waa quite as sceptical aa Uncle - ;
and, indeed, DOne of us were particularly ready to believe in such evidences,
notwithstanding my experience at my father's death, because we had re-
garded that 88 a special answer to prayer; so that no condition of .. over-
wrought nerves," ur" superstitious fears," could have been the cause of tbe
manifestation, but only, so far aa we have been able to judge by subsequent
events, a cm"et warning to my husband in the voice and appearance of the
ono that he had most reverenced in all his lifo, and waa the moat likely to
obey.'
Dr. and Mrs. C., friends of Mrs. and Mr. P., add the following note:-
• 16th Junt, 1885.
This narrative was told us by Mrs. P., as here recorded, Home years ago.
J. C.
ELLEN H. C.'
Mr. P. confirms aa follows:-
---,
17th June. 1885.
Without wishing to add more to the incidents recorded herein by my
wife, I would simply note that the details of No. 2 are quite correot, and that
the occurrence took place 1\8 stated. .. .. .. W. B. P.'
G.-64.1.-Transitional.
The following lllU'rntive was kindly procured for us by Miss Brownlow. of
4, Carlyle-terrace, Chesterton-road, Cambridge, who is a near relation of
Mrs. A. B.; Mr. A. B. died in South Africa, the lady who dreamt
being in England.
Letter from Miss A. L. B. to Mrs. A. B.. widow of the "Uncle A."
spoken of :-
March 4UI, 1885.
I got your letter asking about the dream this morning. It was this :-
Mamma dreamt one night that she was sittiug at table at a supper party.
There waa, she thinks, a good large party, but the ones she remembers being
present were her own father and mother,wbo sat at the top and bottom of the
table, your father and mother, my father and Uncle A., and yourself. Only
the people who were alive spoke. the others were quite silent. Lady B.
spoke a good deal. Uncle A. waa sitting next mamma, and you were on the
other side of him. He never spoke, but you conversed quite naturally. She
• We were requested not to refer to the .. uncle" for corroboration .. unless
ablolute1ylleCel!lar1." .
gitized by (.oogI
280 Journal qf &cietyfor -PS!lcliicalResearcli. [May, l886•
.
aaid to you, "Idid not know you had come home." Youaullwered, "Oh
yell, we have, and don't you 1100 I'm dressedlike you now," and you tookhold of
your dress on both sides and held it out. You Wbre not dressed in widow's
weeds, which would have told at once what had happened, butwore IIOme IIOrt
of light mUlllin. Mamma was very much lIurprised, and wondered if she
could really have a dress like that when she wakened. Uncle A. was dead by
that time, but we had not heard of it. Mamma. sayll she wondered afterwarda
IIhe was not more alarmed at the time as IIhe knew that it W88 only the living
people who were speaking, and he never llpoke. Mamma of course was
wearing a widow'lI dreu at that time. When the letter came mamma
called out " That's my dream, and that'll why A. didn't llpeak, and we are
dreued alike now." Thedream is not the leaat exaggerated; on reading it over
mamma thinks it scarcely gives a vivid enough impression. * if. Mamma
wishell me to say she told us the dream at the time. ". * if.
Further inquiriell were made as to the details of the case. Our questions
and the allswers received are 88 fellow.
The answers, with the exception of the first,-obtained from Mrs.
A. B.,- were given by Miss A. L. B., with her mother, Mrs. B.'s aasent.
1. Wha.t was the year, day, and, if pOSJIible, hour, of Mr. A. B.'s death 'I
1871: 18th November, after midnight of the 17th, about 2 a.m.
2. What was the year and day, 88 nearly 88 can be remembered, of the
dream 7-This cannot be remembered, but it was after the death, and before
the news reached home.
3. Did Mrs. B. sce the meaning of the dream before the news came?
-Not clearly till thu letter came; but IIhe had spoken of the dream 88 if
puzzled by it.
4. Was Mr. A. B. the only person in the dream who was believed by Mrs.
B. to be alive and who did not speak 1-Yes.
6. Was the dream told to anyone, with or without ita meaning, before the
news of the o.eath came 1-Yes, simply as being very curions.
6. If so, to whom 1-Several members of her family.
7. Can t.hat person confirm 7-Her daughters can confirm.
8. Has Mrs. B. had other vivid dreams which have appeared worth
relating at the time, and which have ~(a) come true (b) not come true ~
-No.
9. Has she had waking impressions or presentimenta, or seen apparitions '1
-No.
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
It is hoped that this book, which has been so long announced as in
preparation, will be publishe(l in the course of next month. The terms
on which it will be obtainable by l\Iembers and Associates will be
stated in the June Journal.
gitized by (.oogI
