{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_s_nde_3319.html","mytitle":"Maria S NDE 3319","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria S NDE 3319  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1167  Maria S NDE  3319  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was at the hospital for delivery, at no time I had thought of me being in danger. I am thirty-two and have two other kids no problems with the deliveries of those two. I had exercised until a week before I was due and worked until that day that I went to the hospital; I even drove to the hospital. I did not know what was going on with me since I fainted. I just remember me being in this bluish/whitish bright light. I was walking and saw my deceased grandmother and aunt. They were standing in front of me as I was walking towards them, there was no tunnel, I was in the light, and there was no end behind them only light. My grandmother and aunt were both wearing gowns they looked like the color of light I did not see their feet. They gently smiled at me. As I was walking towards them I felt in peace and I was happy to see them no worries nothing. Then two names came to my mind Julian and Paola they are my kids. As I thought about them something dark pulled me away from my aunt and grandmother.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'June 21, 2007'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedChildbirthAllergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death 'amniotic fluid embolism-pregnancy condition it happens 1 in every 22,000 deliveries with a survival rate of 5%.'.  I was sent to the hospital to deliver my baby I was supposed to get induced since I was already due. I went to the hospital they started the medication I started feeling the worst pain ever I remember asking to get the epidural for pain. I started seizing then I fainted, my baby had to be pulled out because he was not breathing. My heart and lungs failed.  Finally, I started bleeding. The doctors could not stop the bleeding. My family was told that they were going to perform surgery but they did not know if I was going to live. After the surgery, I got a massive blood transfusion twenty-nine units of blood. I was in the intensive care unit for four days; miraculously I survived and came back to my family. This condition is called Amniotic Fluid Embolism. Supposedly I am the first survivor in El Paso known of.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As soon as I saw them both (grandmother and aunt).

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      As soon as I saw them both (grandmother and aunt).

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was just different and happened to quickly all I know is that when I came back from unconsciousness I was happy and eagerly told everybody what I have seen. I felt as if I had gone on vacation to another world.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything was brighter and clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw my grandmother who passed away in 2004 and my aunt who passed away in 1994. They were waiting for me in the light; they looked at me and smiled. I see it as if they were there to welcome me.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A really bright bluish/whitish light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw this magnificient bright light out of this world.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was happy in peace, no worries. I was looking at my aunt and grandmother.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I have always believed in God, and always have tried to get closer to him, needless to say anything else.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   'Faith is stronger than it was before this happened. In a way, I am afraid to ask God for things. Before this happened to me I used to pray God to be closer to my mom, to make me a better person, daughter and mom and to make me different and special. Well I got all I had pray for, I had a condition that hardly anyone experiences (amniotic fluid embolism), I saw that beautiful light, now I am closer to my mom than ever. It has definitely made me a better person. But I am afraid to ask God for things because I do not know how he will give them to me.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have always believed in God, and always have tried to get closer to him, needless to say anything else.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I am closer to my mom I love her more than ever. I have always been close to my husband and children but I am more patient than ever. I see people differently, try to understand them more, I am trying to be more compassionate and giving.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I am more alert as to the future.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The whole experience is meaningful but mostly when my grandmother and aunt smiled at me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I woke up in the intensive care unit on Saturday, I was unconscious since Thursday. When I woke up, I saw my mom's face and my husband. The first thing I said was I saw my grandmother and aunt. They could not understand me because I was intubated but I kept on trying until they did. I do not know when the experience happened but it was in between Thursday and Friday since these were the two most critical days. My mom believed she has gotten closer to me since that day. Others do not believe or choose not to believe it but I know what I saw.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I had heard of it on television. I honestly did not believe in it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I thought it was real when I came back I was still in peace and happy it felt as if I had gone on vacation to another world.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I think about it and I know what I saw. It could not have been a dream I did not know I was dying, I had not thought of my aunt or grandmother at all that day or even week. I was going to deliver a baby, no complications throughout my pregnancy, had gained only twenty-five pounds, thirty-two years old everything was perfect.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was something beautiful. I used to be afraid of dying after this I am not anymore. I do not want to die because I have my children but I am not afraid anymore.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_s_nde_3319.html