{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_n_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria N Possible NDE 3655","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria N Possible NDE 3655  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria N Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1663 Maria N Possible NDE 3655  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suffering from bronchitis and I went to hospital to have some x-rays done. Before going into the x-ray room, I felt short of air. I couldn't breathe. I felt as if I was dying, I felt death very close, I knew I was going to die. I told the nurse who was helping me that I was dying. I wanted to see my daughter, who had gone out, so she could know that I was dying.

All of a sudden, I felt something coming out of my body, something from myself was coming off me. I didn't want this to carry on before I could see my daughter. Something was pushing me to leave the chair where I was sitting.

My mind was telling me that I didn't want to go before I could see my daughter and tell her about the beautiful experience I was going through. I closed my eyes and saw a virgin; something wanted to take me but when I insisted on wanting to see my daughter, it left me alone and I felt my body back on the chair again.

I think that if I hadn't refused, I would have died, I don't know, but when I refused, the force that I was feeling left me alone. In spite of everything, I didn't feel frightened at all, but a pleasant sensation; it was something nice of which I wasn't afraid. It was like saying: You stay on earth or you leave. Something like that.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  jueves 17 de Julio 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   The lack of oxygen.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a virgin.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Senti estar en plena paz y la sensacion fue muy buena.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A pleasant and good sensation. Something nice.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel that when death comes close, this one, death, allows you to choose whether you want to go or stay. If you let yourself go by the extremely nice sensation you are feeling, you will not think of coming back to earth, but if you think of the ties you have in this world (in my own case, I wanted to see my daughter) you are given another chance to stay. Something like that.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have understood that life is over in no time. When your time arrives, you choose whether you want to go with the nice sensation or whether you stay to sort out pending affairs on earth. Something like that.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The situation of whether I let myself go with that sensation or whether I stayed on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not long, maybe ten or twenty minutes. They were surprised.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I lived and felt it since I was fully awake. I never lost consciousness or the like.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt death. Death gave me a choice: you stay on earth or you go. The feeling to go was a very strong one since it was a very nice sensation, but I was also thinking of my daughter a lot. I wanted my daughter to know that I was leaving happy and content. I only wanted her to know. Anyway, I think this was the reason for my delay and why I stayed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_n_possible_nde.html