{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_s_ndes.html","mytitle":"Maria S NDEs 2950","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria S NDEs 2950  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria S NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						1092  Maria S NDEs  2950  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I only knew that my physical body was dying.  Without fear and after going through a phase of denial, I gave myself up to death.  After my experience, I resigned myself to either living or dying.  Even after a year, I continue to be confused.  It is like having been reborn, learning to walk again, and feeling the world around me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	12/19/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   There were three life-threatening episodes caused from severe hyponatremia and cardiac failure almost to the point of needing a transplant.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the coronary unit.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in the coronary unit.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I lost the connection between my body and my mind.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was diminishing clarity in colors and brightness that still continues to this day.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my dead father, aunt, and grandparents.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I returned to my body through a tunnel of light.  When I returned from surgery, there was darkness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a vacant feeling of relief when I returned but my body didn't feel anything.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Just my life, infancy, adolescence etc.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I felt the presence of loved ones who had died.  They were sitting on my bed talking to me, giving me courage, and telling me that everything would be O.K. soon.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned that life and death are the same, but that I shouldn't leave earth prematurely.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My relationship with my family and friends as well as my view of the world I am now in.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I awoke in the world not knowing anything and having to relearn everything.  I have unknown fears, no desire to live, no way to reconnect with the physical world.  I feel sadness and indifference.  I have no feelings of love for anyone.  I feel very alone.  I feel like I am someone I never was and am returning to something unknown.  There is conflict between my own being and not knowing who I am.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything I experienced before and after the surgery.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With family members, friends, psychologists, and psychiatrists.  I was diagnosed with depression from emotional trauma and suicidal.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had cardiovascular surgery when I was 4 years old, paroxysmal tachycardia at 32.  I believe they are memories of critical situations in life.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real and traumatizing.  I felt as if I had returned from some kind of hell and didn't not know why I was alive.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It completely changed my life.  I feel lost and do not understand the world I am in.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Medications  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Questions about confused states, personality changes, fears, anxieties, rupture with the past, not understanding the present, and fear of the future.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_s_ndes.html