{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria P NDE 8055","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria P NDE 8055  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4187 Maria P NDE 8055  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was out at a bar-restaurant with a friend to celebrate Women's Day. We ordered our drinks and decided to stand at the bar to enjoy them. My friend received a call to go pick up her boyfriend just as the drinks were served, so she left.  I was really dehydrated, but hadn't had any water yet.  There was only the alcohol to drink.  I had a sip of my drink and a few seconds later a second sip. 
 
 It is normal for me, since I was a young girl, to have intense instincts and visualizations. I started having a strange feeling that something was going to happen to me.  Chills ran up my body and I started feeling dizzy. I slowly started to walk towards a friend at the end of the bar. The room starts spinning, my heart rate was racing, and I could feel my senses slowing down. This was all in slow motion for me. As soon as I reached my friend, I said, 'Don't be scared, but something very bad is going to happen to me!' and I collapsed. They carried me out of the restaurant and I opened my eyes to see my friend and her boyfriend holding me. That's when I whispered with all my might to him, 'George, please do not be scared but I'm leaving!' Again, I collapsed. He carried me downstairs. According to George, he was holding me straight up, standing with one hand wrapped around my waist and the other hand in a headlock. Suddenly he said I slipped right through his arms like a snake. His grip was so strong that he cannot understand or believe that happened. I fell on the floor as my tongue rolled to my throat. At that point, he could not feel my heartbeat or my breath. 
 
  I suddenly saw myself floating above my body. I was looking downwards at my body, but couldn't see the people around me.  My body looked empty. There was light everywhere that was so breathtaking, magnificent, and absolutely beautiful.   It was light like I have never experienced before.  Words cannot describe it.  The light was intelligent, it was endless, and it was communicating with me. I felt perfection, Bliss, Love, Love, Love, and again, words cannot describe the extent of these feelings. I was so HAPPY, that I did not want to leave. Suddenly, I looked down at my body and asked, 'Why am I so happy when obviously something bad happened to me?' I told the Light that, 'I do not want to leave, I want to stay here with you.' Then the Light replied, 'But it's not your time!' We were communicating without actually talking with our voices. It was inner talk. 
 
  Then I started to feel vibrations from afar.  They were coming closer and closer until suddenly, I felt a strong vibration that caused my entire body to jerk up and hit ground again. It felt like my soul entered my body. I opened my eyes and saw my friend and George crying over me.  He was screaming and yelling that I had gone. Can you just imagine their surprise when I opened my eyes? I whispered to them, 'don't worry I am ok. Everything is OK.' 
 
 Now, I know for certain that Life doesn't end here. I know that where we are headed, after life on Earth, is Perfection. I know that there cannot possibly be bad spirits since the one and only Source is LOVE. The 'bad' spirits are an Ego experience. 
 
 Since the experience, my instincts are stronger than ever.  I am capable of communicating with the other dimensions. I have the gift of Healing (such as diseases, emotional pains). I can easily align my energy with plants, animals, and people and know what they are feeling. I can see past and future events. I've also discovered something extraordinary.  My heart is like a 'telephone.' When someone on the other side of this world, whom I haven't spoken to for years or someone I don't even personally know is thinking of me, or is experiencing challenges in their life, my heart beat changes.  I hear the name of the individual and suddenly I am tapped into their 'consciousness.' I know what is happening and what they are feeling.  
 
 Since my body no longer desires meat, my body heals itself very quickly and with ease.  I've had three mini-tricuspid atresias, a heart surgery where I was up and out in 3 days.  The doctors could not believe it.  I was also in a major car accident where the doctors could not believe that I survived and declared it a miracle.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 8, 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Other: I was overall healthy. The doctor said that someone put a drug in my drink and my heart couldn't handle it. I was overall healthy. Years later, I did discover a hole in my heart and had surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   My highest level of consciousness and alertness was All Knowing. I can't describe with words, otherwise.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Most definitely, when I was with the Light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors are more vivid, gorgeous, and clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was inner rather than outer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I didn't go through an actual tunnel but it felt like the Light was carrying me up.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light was everywhere. It was Intelligent. It was communicating with me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A realm of Light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt Ecstasy, Bliss, Unconditional Love and no fear, whatsoever.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I clearly understood that I am not my body.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   The power of the Light was so intense that even though, at first, I was 'arguing' with it, that I did not, absolutely did not want to return.  The Light told me that I must because my work is not done on Earth. I remember thinking 'It Knows Best!'  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice breathing techniques, yoga, and spend more time in nature. I question everything, in order to find my Truth. As for religion, I concluded that it is very limiting and is translated according to each individual's perception. Love is all there is. Living with Love, through Love, in Love makes the journey of life much more peaceful and joyful. I see everything differently now and I see the connections with people, nature, creatures, earth, planets, and the entire Universe.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Select   Greek Orthodox. Currently I believe that there is only 1 religion and that is LOVE.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I've imagined or believed that life on earth cannot be the end but always had doubts. My image of heaven was more like a 'paradise' of trees and nature.  It was more earthly. The experience however changed all that because I realized that we can change form. I clearly saw energy.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe 1000% that Life after death does exist. 
 
 I learned to be more compassionate. 
 
 I learned that I could manifest a life on earth, as I desire. 
 
 I surrendered to the Universe and no longer try to control matters or events. 
 
 I now, literally: Ask and I Receive.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Light was communicating with me and I could too with our inner voices.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Actually, not during the experience but after the experience, I clearly communicate with Jesus. I, also, can see Him.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I felt that I was the ALL.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I KNEW that I was embraced by God, in God, of God in the form of Light.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt like I was injected with all there is of Knowing. As if, all knowledge was downloaded to me.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I simply was aware that there is life after death. A sense of 'Knowing-ness'.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     All that existed during the experience is Love and that Love is the Source.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Now, I came to the conclusion that religion is man-made and that there are no religions but only Love. My spiritual life is more important now because it helps me connect with the Light. I guess it's more of a tool to consciously connect with the Light, which I experienced.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know that we are all the same, that we all come from the same Source and that every single person's soul is pure Love. The body, the Ego may sometimes show differently but I know that each individual is on a different conscious level on earth and that they are experiencing life, as they know best. Knowing this helps me filter all reactions, challenges, others and mine through my heart first and secondly my head. I found myself to be more compassionate, understanding and patient. Also, I no longer take things personally.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The emotions, the surroundings are indescribable. I thought that giving birth to my son would be a near experience to the ultimate unconditional love I felt during my NDE but it is not even close.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I will never forget this experience until the last detail, and most of all the feeling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can receive messages from people who have passed over. 
 
 I can heal. 
 
 I can communicate with 'Angels'. 
 
 I can speak to and see Jesus. 
 
  I can tap into someone's consciousness. 
 
  I can see past life or future events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I cannot separate the experience into parts because it was a Whole experience and so the entire experience was meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only recently, it has changed their point of view about death, or at least has questioned it. They also feel safe. I also found that it awakens them to their inner wealth and power.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew, deep in my heart, that it was real. The sense of Knowingness stayed with me even days, weeks, years and is still with me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Until this day, I know that the experience was real. If anything, I was showered with amazing gifts after that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_p_nde.html