{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria F Probable NDE 4374","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria F Probable NDE 4374  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2168 Maria F Probable NDE 4374  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had induced labor for my second childbirth. General anesthesia was administered. I remember this event as if it just happened. I remember feeling something was being turned inside me. I remember seeing the doctor and he was counting numbers. I felt as if I was above them, seeing them working on me. Next, I remember seeing my husband and five-year-old daughter in the room outside the operating room. They seemed upset.

All of a sudden I was going through a dark tunnel, but with flashing speed, and straight ahead was a very bright!!! light. Then I was in a meadow with beautiful flowers surrounding me. The colors were so vibrant! I felt peace and love surround me. I looked to my left and there was a splendid man in a white robe, with shoulder-length hair, beard and mustache. Then he was in front of me. There was a bridge separating us, and he communicated in telepathy. I understood that I could go no further. Then I woke up in my hospital room. I don't remember any way back. However, I lay there feeling so sad and an overwhelming feeling of heartache, and remorse. I did not want to be here, I wanted to be in that other place I had been in.

I learned later that I had a difficult delivery. The baby's head was not angled in the birth canal. Also the doctor had a difficult time stopping the bleeding. I was not myself for about six months. Everyone thought I had postpartum depression, but that was not it. I longed to be at the place I visited. I couldn't talk about it, because I didn't know how to explain it, or even if it was real. But it felt very real to me.

It was several years later when I was watching a documentary on TV. This man was describing an experience he had after suffering a heart attack and was clinically dead. It was the same experience I had - going through a tunnel very fast, and a bright light ahead. I almost fell off the couch when I heard this. They called it a near death experience. All I know is that thirty-five years later, I can remember it as if it just happened. I will never forget it!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 18,1975'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Lost a lot of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the entire experience. Beginning from when I was above myself and everyone in the operating room, and up to, knowing I could go no further.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It just seemed different.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I said previously, the flowers I saw for example, were so vibrant, and felt like they generated beauty and love. The man in my experience was peace and love.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In my experience, it was more of feeling rather then hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Right after I saw my husband and daughter outside the operating room. I felt myself going very fast through a tunnel. But not with my body. Hard to explain.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a man who looked like the picture we know of Jesus. The man communicated in telepathy to me. I knew that I had to go back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was a very bright with rays of glowing light. I was not frightened by it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Possibly another dimension.  It was not like anything on earth.  Although I saw things like flowers, a bridge, the atmosphere and everything  was glorious, and spendid.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feelings of love and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I seem to have more cognitive experiences. Something I did not have before my experience. I've been told, more spiritual.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Again, not right away, but now more than ever.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Again, not right away, but now more than ever.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Although not right away, more significantly in the last seven years.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot express what I experience, felt and saw.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I sometimes am aware and sense things before they happen. But it's not of psychic, paranormal in nature.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, because I feel I saw the face of Jesus.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Ten years after my experience. People seem amazed and look at me in wonder and perhaps interest.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I couldn't stop thinking about it; I was not myself even six months after, because I did not want to be here. I did not understand why I couldn't stay!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I understand now, why I could not stay. I still need to fulfill my mission here on earth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know what I experienced, and I feel somewhat privy to something greater then what we have on this earth. I know there Is God, and He is good, and He has a special place for those who heed His Word, and accept Him as Lord and Savior.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_f_probable_nde.html