{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_g_nde_4148.html","mytitle":"Maria G NDE 4148","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria G NDE 4148  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2005 Maria G NDE 4148  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had my first pregnancy at twenty-three, and when my doctor was aware of this he prescribed a lot of rest, and I followed his advice. Although very few pregnancies (of this sort) reach their term, in my case it did, as my twins arrived after nine months, weighing three kilos each, after a natural birth which left me in quite a bad way. They were born at 3:00 pm and at 4:00 am the following morning I suffered an internal hemorrhage, which brought about a big drop in blood pressure with cardio-respiratory arrest. My doctor informed me that they lost me for the space of two minutes, resuscitating me with electric shocks. While being transferred to surgery I felt myself going little by little, my sight went then my speech, then last of all my hearing of the people around me.

I just managed to think that these were my last moments, as I felt so much pain and anguish, when suddenly these were converted to great peace, as I felt my body separate from something which was tying me down, and I felt myself floating as if made of smoke. All around me was darkness, but at the same time, there was a kind of clarity nearby to me. I felt myself floating horizontally and at first I did not know where I was, but of one thing I am certain, that is that I had a consciousness of who I was (AT NO TIME DOES ONE LOSE CONSCIOUSNESS).

Then suddenly I saw a light in the distance, like someone seeing a bright star, and this is when I knew that I had to go towards that light while at the same time a wonderful peace invaded my being, a tranquility never before experienced, and great, great joy at going towards the light. Arriving there, the light was shining in great splendor.  As I entered into the light, I heard someone calling my name.  The voice was full of tenderness saying, 'It is not your time.  You have two children who need you. You must go back.' I replied (without words) that I did not want to, that I wanted to stay in that place and that I was absolutely fine, but I was suddenly taken out of the light, trying to get back to it. When I got back in again the same thing was repeated to me, though inside me I felt nothing for anyone, I just wanted to stay in that place. The second time they told me the same thing, I left the light and opened my eyes.

Several doctors were around me, injecting me with a syringe straight into my heart, and I realized that they were fighting to save my life. The intense pains returned, the fear, anguish and dread, with the anxiety of knowing what was happening to me. Minutes later I heard the nurses saying that a miracle had happened, as they had been about to remove my uterus due to the complications from the birth, but that there was a sudden and total change in my condition, with my organism responding well, so they did not go ahead with it. Gradually I got better. 

Although I had this experience thirty-three years ago, I still remember it as if it were yesterday.  The experience made a huge impression in my life. I pray to God that when he calls me, I can go through this experience again.  I am sure that we all have a time when we have to settle accounts, and though I might try to turn away from it we all have a mission to fulfill, and only God in his infinite wisdom knows when, how and where we are to be called. In the meantime, I try to lead a life devoted as much as possible to God's will, trying to be a human being with much love for my neighbor, doing voluntary service for different religious associations, ready to serve where I am called on, so that when God our Lord calls me I will have something to offer him.

Thanks for the opportunity of giving my testimony. Maria G.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  febreo 15 de 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A very high-risk birth of twins.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the experience. Although the doctor told me they lost me for two minutes, I felt I had been out of my body for a long time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was not exactly a tunnel; it was more that around me nothing was visible, but it was as if something was shining out of me, and beyond was darkness reaching to the distance, with nothing visible.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At first like a bright star, a distant star, and I was filled with joy and knew that I had to get there and all the time it was growing bigger and bigger as I came nearer, until I arrived and everything was light, just everything, filled with a really beautiful and brilliant light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Solo llegué a ver la lúz muy hermosa.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Disoriented at first but when I saw the light I felt absolutely assured that I was meant to go there, and while I was approaching the light is when I experienced great peace, very great love, much joy and tranquility, all at the same time. It is something I never felt in my life, although I have had many happy moments, but these cannot compare with what one experiences in these moments out of the body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Catolica, crellente pero no muy apegada a mi fé católica probablemente por mi edad en ese momento'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not my beliefs, but my way of seeing life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catolica y muy preocupada por el servicio a los demás

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not my beliefs, but my way of seeing life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was so beautiful.  I felt a feeling of peace, love, tranquility and wellbeing such that I have never found the way to describe it in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was difficult to accept that I had to come back again to this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years later I told it to one of my sisters, because I thought nobody would believe me. Then afterwards my whole family, and with the passing years people I don't know but who I know will understand or be interested in my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am certain it was real because I had the sensation of having left this world, and the doctor confirmed this when he assured me they had lost me and then brought me back. Since this time I have been in surgery for various operations, yet this has never happened to me again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm interested in telling people about this so that they will not be afraid to go when God calls them, because if they live life as God commands then they can be sure that a wonderful experience full of love awaits them. It is definitely worth going through suffering, doing the best one can in this life, because afterwards we will be rewarded in a marvelous way and with, I repeat, much, much, much LOVE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_g_nde_4148.html