{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria N NDE 20384","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria N NDE 20384  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						398  Maria N NDE  20384  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I felt an energy suctioning me to a bright big light, then traveling throughout a garden with greenery and a strong smell of roses. I felt the presence of my grandmother but I never saw her, also a musical sound of harps, a sweet calming melody. Next, I was able to see a surgery room, a patient on the surgery table and the nursing and physician staff around this person. I was able to see the legs of the patient but never the face. I noticed that I was viewing this scene from the ceiling at a corner angle, I felt no weight or body, and I did not hear conversations only visual monitoring. I knew that this patient was deceased.


The best experience was that I was able to experience calmness, warmth, love, peacefulness that I will never feel in this world, all the sadness was gone, my insecurity and my emptiness. I heard a strong and vibrant male voice commanding me to go back that this was not my time. I replied to that voice that I wanted to remain where I was, I did not wanted to go back, he commanded me approximately three times to go back now.


I remember waking up and I had tears on my cheeks and a deep sensation of sadness. My first word to a nurse were, 'I saw all of you working on a patient that was deceased.' I was able to describe where the staff was positioned. The nurse looked at my startled and told the other staff to remain quiet. I asked to see my physician but my husband said that he had to leave immediately. Per my husband, he never got to discuss my status with my physician, never got to see him after the surgery. I found out through my mother, one month ago that my husband did talk with my physician.


My husband was told that I had severe complications during my surgery but that I was now stable. After this event, I experience visions of angels, angelical music, able to smell my grandmother's essence and there have been numerous experiences where I had felt her touching my hair or my shoulder while I smell her favorite perfume and her cigar.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    YEAR 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Surgery-related     DURING A LAPARASCOPY WITH ANESTHESIA.My mother assured me that my ex-husband (at that time my husband), was notified by my physician that at one point they had severe complications during the surgery but that I was now stable.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was not able to see my body, I felt no weight, nothing that could possible make me experience physical distress.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Sedated I supposed.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Angelical harps, a vibrating male voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I remember that beautiful garden with strong smell of roses.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     That male voice, commanding me to go back and that this was not my time. Also the feeling and presence of my grandmother waiting for me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Strong bright potent white light that blinded me at that time.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My five senses were very sharp, intense aroma of roses' essence, my vision was vivid colorful and very clear, I felt a strong warmth in my soul as if a divine creature was protecting me.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, warmth, fulfillment, never loneliness. Happiness. And someone next to me giving unconditional love.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Now I am able to feel when unpleasant events are about to occur. I am able to sense people with negative energy around me. I strongly believe that there is another life after death.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     That beautiful garden, the angelical melody and the sensation of me floating.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Dreams that had become reality. I am able to sense when a person or loved one wants and will communicate with me. One morning as I was getting ready to go to work, I had a strong feeling that I was going to be involved in a minor traffic accident. As the day progressed, I forgot about that vision until I did experience that minor collision approximately at 3:00 pm that same day.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware that I needed to return to my body and to earth as that potent voice commanded me. I felt very sad coming back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am very certain that after death, there is a peaceful place to go, I know that I will see my deceased love ones and God when the time of departure comes.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Not hard to explain in words at all. Disbelieved by family members. At first I questioned myself if it was a dream, I am now sure it was not a dream.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I was able to visualize angels and dark souls in my house.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Feeling that peace that I have never been able to experience in this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my brother and he seems to be the only one to believe me immediately, he gave me your e-mail address. Others disbelieved my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I now know that this was not a dream.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_n_nde.html