{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_g_nde_9711.html","mytitle":"Maria G NDE 9711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria G NDE 9711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5243 Maria G NDE 9711  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    At that time, I had an inflamed liver because my body did not process red meat well. Eating meat made me sick, so I had to give it up. I had many fainting spells. I  couldn't stand up because I would fall to the ground because of having fainted. During one of those fainting spells, I felt like I was no longer breathing.

   Suddenly, I saw a very great darkness. In the background, I saw a light that was brighter than any I had ever seen, brighter than sunlight.  I went towards the light, moving slowly.  When I got there, I saw a super lush garden, with grass and flowers of all colors that reached almost to my waist. I saw my two grandparents and a friend who had died years ago, looking at me and smiling.  

  Behind my grandparents, in the distance, there was a HUGE mountain with beautiful waterfalls that fell from very high up into an impressive lake.  The lake was surrounded by happy people.  Some were bathing in it; some naked and others in white clothing. It looked like paradise. When I saw that, I felt such an immense peace that I wanted to stay there. I didn't care about anything on earth because everything was a million times better here than life on earth. It was as if I knew everything without being told anything, a feeling of extreme abundance and completeness.  

  As approached my grandparents, my maternal grandfather extended his hand to me. I told him that I wanted to stay there. He told me, 'Not yet honey, you still have things to do.' Suddenly, I felt someone grab my shoulder. I looked at myself and there was a black hand pulling me backwards. My grandparents told me, 'We will be waiting for you.' 

  I felt myself re-enter my body as if from above. I woke up breathing very hard, like someone stuck underwater for a while without breathing.  

  I will never forget that.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 2014  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness.        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It felt much more real than life. I felt like nothing on earth mattered, because it wasn't real. That it didn't matter if I died because my parents' pain when I left would not last very long. Time in that kind of place/paradise went much faster. And it felt like my parents' pain would only last a moment. It's something difficult to explain.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time ran much faster than on earth.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Before that experience, I was a cold person. Once I came back, my way of seeing life completely changed. I became a super warm and loving person. Now, I’m a person who values everything a thousand times more. One step at a time.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    See above. Already described.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I describe everything in the narrative.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandparents and a friend.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Already described above.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Like paradise, super lush and full of life.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  I mention this in my narrative.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Luciferian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Other:   Luciferian  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Our beliefs are independent of what we see when we die. I had been a Luciferian since I was a child and yet, look, I went to paradise.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I see things differently; I assign more importance to feelings.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     My grandfather didn't let me cross over, since I had something left to do.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     And that’s more real.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more affectionate with my parents.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I describe it in the narrative.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I already explained this.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Having seen all that I saw.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's always something I talk about.  

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes.   My sister and my relatives have also had NDEs.  My uncle came back from death for an instant, as they were mourning him in the room.  He wanted to  tell my cousins and my aunt not to cry for him. They had told him that they had a very big gift to give him, but then he died again.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I said so.  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real.     I said so.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No              				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_g_nde_9711.html