{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7069","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n32_sep_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N32 September 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXIL-VoL. D.
JOURNAL
01' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Announcement of General Meeting •• ••
Cases received b}' the LiterarY Committee
Antomatic Writing •
Correspondence . . •. ••
.. Phantasms of the Living .. . .
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
PAGB
..81!5
•. 385
.. .04
•. 406
.. .os
The next General Meeting of the Society will be held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall,
S.W., on Friday, the 29th of October, when a paper will be read
by Mr. Frederic W. H. Myers on "Multiplex Personality." The
chair will be taken at' 8.30 p.m.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Co1ttimwl. )
[TM Literary Committee wilZ be gZad to receivll well authenticated e-vidence of
phenomena belonging to any of the following cla&8es, speci1ne1k'1 of which (lrt
from time to time recorded in this Journal:
L. Phantasms of the Living.
G. PhantCl8Tn8 of the Dead.
M. Hypnotism, Mesmerism, and Clairroyallce.
P. Monition and Premonition.
S. MisceZlaflW!I$ phenomena of the kind sometimes described as
" Spirit-ualistic."
Personal experience of "lIffi8ory hallucinations" of any sort will also
be tr.elcome.
The Committee print I1I.Ch cases cu primd facie seem to tMm Zikely to thr()!/)
light on the I1Wjecta investigated by the Society, or to seT1'e cu material for
profitable criticism and disetlMion.
Communications intended for the LiteranJ Committee ahottld be addreased
fu Edmmw, Gurney, Esq., 26, Mcmtpelier Square, Lcnw'm~, S. W.; or, to
Frede-ric W. H. Myers, Esq., Leikhampton HatIBe, Cambridge.]
G.-182.
The account which follows was originally published in Ligllt of
March 10th, 1883, having, as Mr. C. explained to us subsequently,
been written down at the request of some brother clergymen at a
clerical meeting. Some time after the appearance of this account we
2 B
386 Jou,l-nal of Society f01' Psychical, Research. [Sept., 1886.
entered into correspondence with Mr. A. D. C. himself, and other
members of his family, and their letters are appended :-
I have been aaked to furnish some account of my experiences in •
haunted house, which occurred some twenty years ago.
My father waa a private schoolmaster, R.Ild in my tenth year his school
outgrew the accommodation which the house we then lived in afforded. .A
friend, who WILl the non-reBident leBBee of a large, commodious house, some
eight milel away, made him an offer of this dwelling, capable of accom-
modating nearly Bixty peraona, at the BUBpicioualy low rental of twenty
pounda a-year. The reaaon was eaBy to find-it waa reported to be haunted !
Tall treea envil'oned it on every Bide, and the gardena were like a
wlldemeBB, so neglected had the place been for years. It W88 three Btoreys
in height, IlpacioUB, with a flat, leaded roof, whence one could look down
upon the country through the treeB. There waa an abundance of out-hoUBeB
in a somewhat ruinous condition. The carriage-way had become a damp
lane, Bometimea flooded in winter. But the building itBelf was sound-its
WallB very thick. A tragedy had taken place therein nearly half a century
before the date of which I write. A captain in his Majeaty'. Navy had lived
there with an amiable young wife, to whom he waa unfaithful to IUch an
extent that, diBguiBing his marriage, he made an offer to another young lady,
and waa on the point of committing bigamy. Indeed, the marriage cere-
mony had actually begun, when the injured wife appeared on the 'scene and
forbade ita completion. He ran away j eM returned home, and in her
diBtreu hung heraelf in a room at the extreme angle of the top Btorey of
the house.
The unhappy wife lies buried in a neighbouring churchyard with the
following epitaph :-
Reader!
If thou hast a heart famed for Tender-
neBB and Pity, Contemplate this Spot,
In which are depoaited the Remaina of a
Young Lady, whose artIeBB Beauty, innocence
of Mind, and gentle Mannera once obtained
her the Love and Esteem of all who knew her j
But when Nervel were too delicately Bpun to
bear the rude Shakea and J08tlings which we
meet with in this transitory World, Nature gave
way; She Bunk R.Ild died a Martyr to
EXceBBive Sensibility :
Mm. Sarah Fletcher,
wife of Captain Fletcher, departed this
Life at the Village of Clifton on the 7th of June, 1'199,
in the 29th Year of her age.
May her Soul meet that Peace, in
Heaven, which thiB Earth denied her.*
• The epitaph &II given in Mr. A D. C.'8 original account W8II, &II he tell.
DB, written down from memory, and contained BOme verbal inaccuracies. The epitaph
&II it appe&l'll in the text W&IJ copied for DB by Mr. G. Acheaon, Univel'lllty
College, Oxford, on June 11th, 1885, direct from the tombatone in Dorchester
churchy&n:l.-F. P.
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1886.] Journal of Society /0)' Psychical Rese(:wck. 381
A pitiful story! And who ....ould ....onder that the place ....as said to be
haunted 1 And so it ....as, as I shall proceed to aho.....
The 1'1istica asserted that ....heelbarrows ran about without visible agency;
that pump-handles ....orked ....hen the form of the ....orker ....aa invisible; that
the house ....aa lighted up at night, ....hen no one was within; and even that
a benighted traveller, calling to aak his WIly, had the door opened to him
by the ghost! My father, ho....ever, was not at all moved by all this
village gosaip. But he did the right thing; he ....ent and spent a night in
the house. No unearthly Bight or omens appeared; all ....as still that night;
and ....e took posaesaion of the place. It was propheaied that we should not
occupy it a year, but the year passed quietly a....ay.*
* * * * * *
Some years had elapsed and I was nearly aeventeen. I slept, then, in a
little bed-chamber which opened out of a large outer room called "the lower
room.'lOne bright moonligbt night, "as I lay a-thinking" about some
mundane subject or other, I heard stepa, ....hich a....akened strange recollec-
tions, descend the atairs, outaide this outer chamber. I heard the door open
and the night-walker seemed to enter. The stepa approached my door. It
was a peculiar tread ; the boota "creaked," to use a common saying, " as
though they had not been paid for," and as I lay wondering who it could be,
thus shod, about in the night, the BOund ceaaed. Soon afterwards, I heard
tAe village cLock .trike three.
The next night I was a....ake again by mere chance; the same phenomena
....ere repeated; and immediately afterwarda the clock strllck three aJain I
Then I felt sure that there ....as BOmething out of the common in these steps,
and I determined to lie ....ith my door open the next night, and to see ....hat
it ....as. That next night, as I lay in anticipation, I heard the steplidescend-
ing the stairs. I heard the outer door open. Whatever it was that entered,
it certainly po888ased force, for it puahed the open door of a wardrobe, which
obatructed the passage, forcibly aside, and ahut it with a loud noise. The
stepe came round between the beds ....here· some young boys slept, towards
my door, when to my amazement, no form appeared; yet the steps preBBed
on to....ards my bed. I cried aloud," Who is it 1" and all waa silent. I
sprang out of bed and searched the room and the adjacent paasages, but no
elucidation of the mystery appeared.
When I communicated my night's experience (very cautiously-for my
father had again and again forbidden such reports aa likely to alarm the boys
and prejudice the school), I found that I had stumbled on a fact known to
many in secret-that at a quarter to three each morning these stepa paraded
the house, from the chamber where the suicide ....as committed to the room
in ....hich I alept.
An aasistant muter informed me that, going upstairs at that hour, he
had met the stepe coming down and felt a cold blast of wind paas him, to his
no small terror. My brother, younger than myself, told me that one night
as he lay awake in that outer room with a bad cough, he heard them coming,
• The pa88age concerning an apparition, ~which followed here in the original
~unt, haS been omitted at the requeat of Mr. C. himaelf, who thinb that streM
Ihould not be laid upon.it.-F. P.
2 B 2
Digitized by Google
388 Jotwnal of Society for Psychical Resea1och. [Sept., 1886.
and thought his father had heard him cough, and ....as bringing him lOme
lozenges-....hen the door opened and the bodiless stepa came to his bedside,
frightening him terribly. Many othel"ll had also heard the steps, but all said,
" Say nothing about it ; it ....ill vex your father and do no good ; neither do
the steps do any harm."
At last, anxious to obtain some key to the mystery, I asked the senior
aBIIistant master to ait up all night with me in his own little room (....hich was
partitioned oft" from the chamber in ....hich the suicide had been committed)
that ....e might endeavour to find out ....hat was the nature of "the stepa." I
had not then seen the tomb of the unfortunate Mrs. F., and did ·not kno....
the exact date of the tragedy, but I am inclined to think that ....e ....atched
on the very anniversary of the fatal day, or rather night.
The evening paBBed slowly, in spite of books, and draughta, and other
amusementa; and contrary to my expectation-for I had imagined that mid-
night ....ould not paBB unptarked-all ....as quiet until the dawn of the suduner's
day made itself dimly felt through the window curtains.' It was then a
quarter wthree, and ....e aat looking at our watches with but little expecta-
tion-for daylight is a great obstacle to belief in ghosta-when all at once,
just as I had aaid "Unless it comes soon there will be nothing to-night!" a
step, heavy and determined, ....as heard in the adjacent room behind the thin
....ooden partition. It ata.1ked out through the door, along a little passage a
fe.... feet in length, and then paBBed our door. I opened the door and looked
out. The passage ....as fairly lighted up by the broaking dawn of day, and
the steps ....ere paBBing heavily along it, but there ....as no form ! We followed,
but a few feet behind. The steps reached the staircase and began to descend
the stairs. We looked over from the balustrade above; the atairs seemed to
bend under tllat mysterious tread ; but my companion faltered, and I follo....ed
down the flight above.
Mid....ay there ....as a landing and then, turning an angle, a second short
flight of atairs ended in front of a large windo...., and on the right hand W8B
the door of the lower room. In the light of that summer dawn I distinctly
sa.... the handle turn and the door open; and I heard the stepa enter. I ....
so close behind that, as I follo....ed, the door ....as slammed in my face. I
pushed it open again. The room ....as empty, save of boys sleeping quietly in
their beds, unconscious of the mystery around them. It ....as no.... nearly
three o'clock, and, satiafied that the matter was beyond human agency, we
slept till our usual hour of rising.
No further investigation seemed necessary. We all felt convinced it W8B
a case of the supernatural, and left it. But sometinlea a visitor ....ould _y to
my father at breakfast :-
•• You ....ere about very late last night, ....eren't you 7"
" No. I retired before midnight."
"Because I heard heavy steps about, just before three."
Then we ....ould look at each other and say nothing.
But ....ithin a year from this time, the phenomenon (if I can apply that
word where naught ....as seen) ceased, and for ten years the house was perfectly
quiet. I often lay awake, having set my alarum for the time, but nothing
whataoever rewarded my watching. This, perhaps, may be an argument
Digitized by Google
8epL,l886.] Journcd 0/ Society /&1' Psychical, Research. 389
that imagination had naught to do with the matter. Mine was as much
excited on the lattor as on the fonner OCCB8ion.
Ten years paued away. My father anti mother had retired from ootive
life, and gone away to live. My brother had become the head master of the
achool, 9as married, and resided at the old house. 1 was myself ordained
in priest's orders and chaplain of a large achool, when, just before the Christ-
mae holidays, 1 received a letter from my brother, in which were these
worda :
" Weare very anxious to see you at honle again. Do you remember the
ghoat1y disturbances about ten years ago 1 They have returned worse than
ever, and we want your aid to investigate them."
1 was about to return home to spend the Christmas vacation when 1
received this, and went full of anticipation, not lOrry to have the oppor-
tunity, as a man, of further investigation into the mysteries which lUld 10
puzzled me as a boy. 1 found when 1 reoohed home, and had had a long
talk. over it all, that for lOme time there had been a renewal of the disturb-
&DCeI, but not quite of the like nature with the fonner manifestations. They
centred, it ie true, at the old hour, but were by no meanaconfined wit now.
1 will give a few instances.
My brother told me that one night he was awoke by loud cries of terror
from the boys who alept in the" suicide's room," jUllt above his own. (I
need not _y we did not give it that name before the pupils, nor did they
know the story.) Be rushed upstairs, greatly alanned, and found several
excited boys,who declared that a woman without a head had entered the room.
Be tried to laugh at it, comforted them, left a light buming, and came
doW1l.ltairs.
" Look at your watch," said hie wife.
A quarter to thru I
Another night my aiater was IIleeping in the fatal chamber, with a cousin.
.All at once she was awoke by a loud cry, and found her companion in
hystericlI. The aforesaid woman had entered the room. My sieter looked
at her watch. (The cousin did not know the preceding foots.)
A quarter to thru I
A midwife who attended at a con1inement and IIlept in that room, after
the first night aaked whether she could have another cbamber.
" Why 1" was the natural quelltion.
"Oh, it doell not matter," she said; IIhe would try it again; and coloured
llightly as if ashamed. The next day she said she tnmt sleep elsewhere
for lOme one came into that room each night, and threw himllelf (or herself)
down on an empty bed ; but it seemed no natural person, for when she struck
a light there was no one there.
There were many limilar tales all connected, more or lellll, with a
quarter to three, but just at this time the disturbances had become worse and
extended throughout the night.
For a day or two 1 heard nothing, 110 far as 1 can remember, but at
length there came one bitterly cold night, when 1 had got to bed with a hot
water bottle for companion to my frozen feet, in a room of the top storey
where 1 slept. 1 was alone on that floor; the pupils were all home for their
Digitized by Google
390 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. (Sept.,18118.
holidays. I had just put my light out when a series of noises began, as of
the moving of furniture, the opening of doora, the parading of the pas88!f8L
One would luppose every room was tenanted by restl888 beings save my own,
wbich was quiet itl4uu. I had gone to sleep in spite of it all-for it waa too
cold to get up to investigate-when I heard the ringing of a bell in my room,
which had been a servants' room, and communicated below. I got up and
heard knocks upon the ceiling beneath my ftoor.
An invalid sister was then sleeping in the chamber beneath, and I
accordingly put on my dressing-gown, went out into the bitter atmosphere
(that night a policeman was frozen to death in his box not far off), descended
the staira, and went to the door of my sister's room•
.. Poor L. is so dreadfully alarmed by the noises," said my other sistsr,
who slept with her ; .. do see what it all means I"
"It is usel888," I said, "but I will go through the house to satisfy you
that there are no robbera in it." So I went through all the large rooms of
the empty house. I was the only man in it that night. All was quiet; and
I went back to my sistera' door, and said, "You need not fear; it is only the
ghosts. They can do us no harm while we trust in God !" I then went back
to my bed, but not to rest, for I was no BOoner asleep than I W88 awoke
by a fearful craah I Outside my door was a large box; this appeared,
judging by the BOund, to be lifted up several feet, and then allowed to fall
heavily on the floor. I would not get up, and soon dozed off again. It 1fU
repeated a second time, with a deafening noise and shock. Still, I would
not get up, but, commending myself to God, slept again. A third time I
was awoke by the same shock.
A sudden thought inapired me. I was a priest and might try what
exorcism would do. So I used, as nearly as I could remember it, the ancient
form commanding the spirits to depart in the name of the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost I And all waa quiet through ~e old house during the remainder
of that night. In the morning I asked my sistera, "Did you hear anything
after I left. you 1" They replied, " Yes, three heavy smashes; then all
was still."
This occurrence, more than aught else, led me to believe that the noisea
were the result of the !!gency of evil spirits.
A friend, who is a great believer in Spiritualism, tells me that I ought to
have l1uestioned the ghosts, for they can open no COnIDlUnication, but
evidently sought such opening ; and that I might have done good had I
addre88ed them.
To conclude, from that night until we left the place it was the scene of
continual disturbance. Our doora were tried at night; we saw the handles
turn; steps continually paraded the passages; furniture appeared to be
shifted, but never could we detect any visible agency. The most melancholy
occurrence connected with these disturbances was as follows :-A poor boy
\\'as left behind in the following Christmas holidays, suffering from conges-
tioll of the lungs. He died, and one night, while the body was lying in
110 room adjacent to my brother's study, such dismal noises issued from the
chamber of death while my brother and his wife wero in their room, that
they could not bear it, and were obliged to go elsewhere.
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1886.] JO'UNUJl of Society 1m' PBychical Ruearclt. 391
_o\nd the moat significant thing occurred at the same trying II888On. My
brother was in town, and bia wife was sleeping alone when she heard lOunds
all over the hoWl8, as if a number of carpenters and upholaterers were taking
down the furniture previous to removal. She heard them, as it seemed, take
down the bedsteads, and place the iron laths in succeuion on the floor with
distinct lOund. She lay terrified a long time, and then awoke a visitor who
slept in the adjoining room. He, too, had heard all these noiaea with the
utmost astonishment, greatly wondering what household arrangements thus
interfered with the rest which night should bring to all. These noiaea were
evidently prophetic, for within a year fever broke out in the village, extend-
ing to the school, and coating us two or three lives; and my brother, under
medical advice, moved his whole establishment to a woll-known watering-
place on the South Cout, where it still flourishes.
We are all, from experience, what the world calla .. believel'll in ghOllts " ;
but none of us have ever had such experiences elaewhere-a strong proof
that the occurrences I have detailed did not originate in our own imaginations.
March, 1883.
Mr. A. D. C., after aeeing Mr. Podmore's notes ofbia interview with Mr.
E. E. C. (given below) wrote as follows :-
(1) AI to the headl.. woman, I should have said I got the information
from my brother himaelf, for he was the hero of the episode ; but as he does
not remember it, I think it must have been Hi'll. C. who told me. There is
great ditliculty in remembering a thing which took place M) long ago.
(2) The extract from my diary is brief; it was written at the reappearance
~f the ghoat in 1867, after I was ordained.
Jan1lary 5th, 1867, &turday.
" Last night there was a pretty disturbance of the supernatural charac-
ter. About midnight, 10011 after we all got to bed; there was a continuous
aeries of heavy noises in all the empty rooms, as if heavy bodies were lifted
up, and then dashed violently against the floor. I slept in the Muter's
room and was alone upon the upper floor; it was intensely cold, and I had
got under a prodigious number of blankets, with a hot water apparatus at
my feet, 10 I was not much incline(l to move ; but presently a bell rang in my
room, and I quietly observed to myself, that the ghOllts were improving in
their practice; but when I heard voices in the room below (occupied by my
aistel'll), I found they had rung the bell (by a wire), and that they were dread-
fully alarmed by the noises; so I was forced to get up and IIC8ol'ch the hoWl8,
verr ineffectually, until reporting all safe, I got into bed again, and was no
IOOner warm than the malicious hobgoblins began as badly as ever. So I
laid a prayer against evil spirits. After this I heard no more, and slept com-
fortably till daybreak. It was strange that at the moment I named, the
noises aeemed to cease everrwhere. At breakfast this moming we tried to
diacuaa the matter, but could come to no aatisfactorr conclusions; the noises
were unaccountable, 10 they must lie at the door of the same agoncies which
UICd to disturb us so dreadfully ten or twelve ye&l'll ago."
Digitized by Google
392 Joo,1"fW1, of Society for Psychical, &search. [Sept.,1lI88
This extract waa written for no eye but my own, and flO1D tint 11881 the
light after 18 years. You can lee it WM Dot written for publication, by
its 100II8 style, which might be improved.
* * * * * *
(3.) The story of the midwife waa from my couain, Mill W., who had it
from the woman j but M it WM 10 long ago (the child in question is my
brother's elde# IOn) ahe mayor may not remember it.
(4.) The story of the noiaea in the chamber of death waa decidedl!l from my
brotherhimaelf, I rememberit perfectly. ItW88 he and hie wife who bolA heard
them, and could Dotlit longer in the adjacent room, where they were buay
over books and accounts. If he did not remember tAil, it is pUling strange,
and shows how much more hold it took of my imagination than hie.
(5.) I could affirm that I IIW the door-handle turn aa cO'Itfidently aa I c&Il
affirm anything that haa occurred in my life, I am morally ,ure of it, I see the
whole scene now as I write.
(6.) I shall be very glad to hear what Mr. W. says, it WM he who WIll
there with me that June night in 1854. 30 years ago j he did not descend
10 far M to see the door handle turn, but halted on the landing place
above.•••
* * * * * *
After seeing Mr. J. S. W.'s letter, Mr. A. D. C. writes again :-
March 7th, 1885.
I have drawn you a new plan, to scale, according to my best remembrance.
Let me add a few remarks:
No.3 is the room mentioned by Mr. J. S. W., where the nail was. The
footsteps always came to the door, but no further.
No.7. Here Mr. J. S. W. slept with one of us, on the most eventful
night in hie annals. Hel'6 I slept that cold winter's night described in
Light, when I searched the house, and conjured the spirits, aa described in
my diary sent you j but at the latter period (1867) it waa partitioned ofi', II
described by the red* lines, into tAree small rooms. The dead lights were
looking into the passage, marked thus ===
You can get approximate distances from plan, drawn 10 feet to the inch.
* * * * * *
I have, ,ince I wrote last, seon the cousin referred to, and her account I
enclole. It differs a little from the account given by me, which W88 again
tradition, through a third peraon. How every investigation ahOWI us the
tendency of Itories to receive additions aa they go from mouth to mouth.
Still I think tho main facts correspond. • • • • A. D. C.
We sent Mr. A. D. C.'s account to hie brother, Mr. E. E. C., and received
the following letter in reply :-
January 27tA, 1885.
DLu Sm,-l have carefully read the paper you send me, and I can giveit
a gmeral confirmation.
Some of the details are new to me. They may be perfectly correct, but
I do not remember them.-I am, dear sir, yOUl'B faithfully,
E.E.C.
• Indicated by the t/l.iU; lin. in the plan .. given on the opposite page.
Digitized by Google
8ept.,l886.] JO'UI1"TW/, of Society /0'1' Psychical .Research. 393
"
Front e1eTation of H01ll8
rough sketch.
" " "t
" . ~
"
" . r I . " "
-"No.lI.
""I
" I
f-I 1-------,----- i
I I " I I I :
I I 1 r
.. I LLlll,1. I
I7l
i
-)J---,- ---- r
~\
CO I CO
1
1
I
No room over this one.
-,
Hr'------------
I
- ------)-1 /-.- ~
I ~
I
1 00
I
II nrT I
1 I
I I I I I I I \'
I
I
r----------
I
I
.L
T r
r- 1.:.....----------
L-Room occupied by my father and mother--ilUbeequently brother and wife.
2,-Viaitora'ROOm.
3.-"Ante·Chamber" (lucu, /I tIOnlucmdo) fIlUM diaturbed.
4.-" Lower Room" (much diaturbed).
5.-8ervants' Room (never diaturbed).
G.-Top Room (never di8turbed).
7.-Boi Room (much diaturbed).
H.-Muter'. Room. Mr. J. S. W. slept here at one time; here, too, he and I watched..
!I.-The Suicide'. Room-fORI ee origo mali.
-- -. Track of the GhOBt, 1.46 /1.111.
These dimenaiona are from memol'1. but approxima(S~~A1o~le
394 Jotwnal of Society for Psychical Jle8ea·rch. [Sept..188L
On the 14th February, 1885, I called upon Mr. E. E. C., with
whom I had some previous acquaintance. The following notes of our
conversation have been read through and corrected by him:-
When he wrote that he could only give a geneml confirmation to the
account written by the Rev. A. D. C., he by no means intended to imply my
doubt of the geneml accuracy of his brother's narrative. Mr. E. E. C. caDIlot
profe.. to remember all the details given; but he confirms in the fullest
manner his brother's account of the footfalls.
They went to the house in IMG, when Mr. E. E. C. was only four yean
old. He distinctly remembers the incident narrated by his brother, vis..
hearing the stepa come down to him at a time when he lay in the lower room,
Mr. E. E. C., indeed, frequently heard the stepa as 0. boy. He describes them
as finn and determined, but not heavy-like a woman's footsteps. They
always began in No.9-the suicide's room-and went along an uncarpeted
passage, and down two flights of uncarpeted stairs, passing through the
lower bedroom-in which Mr. E. E. C. used at one time to sleep-into the
boudoir, where they ceased. Thus, throughout the whole of this COI1l'll8 the
boards were bare, and the stepa sounded like a woman's finn steps on boards;
quite loud and unmistakeable. They never varied in their character, their
COI1l'll8, or their time. Mr. E. E. C. never heard them, and never learnt that
anyone else heard them, at any other time than 2.45 Lm. He is unable to
conceive any ordinary explanation for the noises. No mere creaking of wood,
noises of the wind, rats, or any other cause with which he is acquainted
could, in his opinion, account for them. On one occasion in particular,
when about 16 years old, Mr. E. E. C., when sleeping in the lower room (on
the ground Hoor), woke up suddenly, with an indescribable feeling of terror.
ahivering all over, and then heard the steps coming along the pauage over-
head, and got out of bed to go upatairs to a cousin's room. He paued the
atepa, on this occaaion, on the stairs-he going up, the steps, apparently,
coming down.
It was about this time (1857, or thereabouts) that Mr. J. W., the senior
aaaistant master, and Mr. A. D. C., sat up to hear the steps. Mr. E. E. C.
did not himself sit up, but he distinctly remembers hearing from Mr. W. and
his brother an account of their adventures the next day.
He also recollects on many occasions hearing visitors asking who had
been walking about the house in the middle of the night; and, whenever the
time could be accurately fixed, it was found to be the aame-2.45 a.m.
Itwas in 1866 that Mr. E. E. C. married, and took the charge of the school
During the first year or 80 of their married life, he and his wife lived in a
cottage in the village, 80 that he was not himself a witneu of the noises.
The incident of the boys being alarmed he recollects, however; md it
must, therefore, have occurred rather later. The boys told him that someone
had come into the room ; but on questioning, he ascertained that they had
only heard stepa Zeaml1g the room, and had drawn the inference that someone
must have come in~ the room before. Nothing, he thinks, was said about
a figure being .teen by any boy. But it is pouible that some nervous &mall
boy may.have made the statement referred to by Mr. A. D. C. He C&IlJ1Ot
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1886.] JOV/M,/M Of Society for PB'!Jchical Resea1OCIt. 395
remember on this particular occasion consulting hia watch; but he is certain
that if he had found that the time was other than 2.45 a.m. he would have
noted the instance as remarkable.
The aiater mentioned in the next paragraph of Mr. A. D. C.'s account is
dead.
The _" (not midwife), who was a complete stranger in the neighbour-
hood, stated to him, on being questioned, that she had merely heard sounds
of someone Uatnt'!l the room. She said that she would prefer-if there was
no other room for her-to sleep on the door mat outside Mr. E. E. C.'s
room. This W'aI! in 1867.
Mr. E. E. C. can recollect hearing from both hia brother and the two
aiaters (one dead, one at Oxford), their accounts of the noises and the
exorcism, but he was not himself present in the house ; nor can he recollect
how the noises were described at that time.
In general Mr. E. E. C. can only recollect hearing the steps. He never
himself saw handles turned, or doors opened, or heard the noises as of
furniture being shifted. Nor can he remember the noises i88uing from the
"chamber of death " referred to. Indeed, it is very unlikely that such
noises would have been heard unle88 extremely loud. The room in which
the dead body was placed was situated at the extreme end of a long and
rambling pile of buildings, in the same wing as hia study, but at the opposite
extremity, and far away from the bedroom occupied by himself and hia wife.
Mrs. E. E. C., who has read through Mr. A. D. C.'s account, told her
husband that she well recollected the noises as of bedsteads being moved,
&c., but that in her opinion they were due to ordinary causes. Tho sounds
occurred in an exceptionally stomly winter (Christmas, 18(7), and no doubt
wind amongst the trees, and in the roof, was responsible for moet of the
sounds.
In this same winter, however, Mr. E. E. C. sat up each night during
his wife's. illne88, reading in his study, and would hear the steps go along
the passage and down the stairs on moat of the nights of his vigil. They
were always heard at the same time. If nothing had happened by 3 a.m.
Mr. E. E. C. knew that nothing would happen, and would go to bed.
Mr. B., a relative of the boy who died, stayed in the house before
the death, and on one occaeion came to Mr. E. E. C.'s room in tho middle of
the night to ask if anyond had gone down to the boy, as he had heard some-
one paaaing down the stairs. Mr. E. E. C. then looked at his watch, found it
was just past 2.45 a.m., and was able to assure his visitor that no one had
stirred, and that the steps would not be heard again that night.
Mr. E. E. C. is decidedly of opinion that the footsteps were not of physical
origin. He has had no other experience of the kind, and has never been
the subject of a ha.llucination.
Mr. E. E. C., as a boy, heard the story of the suicide from James, an
old inhabitant of the village-of the labouring claaa-who died in about
1856, at the age of between 90 and 100. He believes that the hiatory of the
hoUle, given by hia brother, is entirely accurate.
F.P.
Digitized by Google
396 Journal of Society for PsychicoJ, R.e8eo/I'ch. [Sept..l88L
Febnuwy 17th, 1885.
Dear Mr. Podmore,-l retum your MS. slightly annotated. and amended.
In reply to your queries :-{1) Mrs. C. cannot corroborate the account of
the noises from the •• Death Chamber."
* * * * * *
Mia W. would generally confirm all I have stated, but ahe would decliDe
to give evidence.
E. E. C.
Febncary 19th., 1885.
I cannot still confirm my brother's statement about the DOils
from the "Chamber of Death "-even my "study," in which he states 1
WII8 sitting, waa separated. lOme 40 yarda from the chamber in question, with
four other rooma intervening.
E.E.C.
We wrote to Mr. W., the master referred to in Mr. A. D.O.'s
account, and we submitted his first letter to Messrs. A. D. C. and
E. E. C. for their comments. The lo.tter gentleman writes to us on the
26th Februo.ry, 1885, that:--
.. Mr. W.os letter is very interesting.
" He is a moat conscientious man, and you may strictly rely on his state-
.ments aa far aa his memory serves him.
.. I cannot do more than generally cotTOborate.
..I may have stayed up with him, but if 80 I have absolutely forg<>tten it."
E. E. C.
Mr. A. D. C. supplied some comments on Mr. W.'s statements
which are appended as footnotes to the account.
The following is Mr. W.'s first letter :--
FebncanJ 18tA, 1885.
Dear Sir,-InrespOD8e to your letter of the 16th, I will endeavour to
give you an account of the events alluded to, 80 far as memory may 8IIIiIt.
It is nearly 31 yeo.ra since my first acquaintance with the two gentlemen you
name, tile MeBlrB. E. E. C., and A. D. C., who were then young, IDd
resident at C. I waa told, shortly after becoming an inmate of their
father's house, that it waa subject to sundry disturbances, one of which
in particular took place aa a rule ahortly before 3 in the morning. I
agreed with the elder brother-now a vicar in W--- dioceae-to
devote one night to a careful watch. I do not think anyone knew of
our intention. The room in which we Bat was, perhaps, about BlIven
yards from the top of the stair·ffight where the foot-stepa were said to
commence." * At the given time-I think 15 minutes t<> 3-foot-atepl,
.. of a high-heeled boot were heard descending the stair : they were followed
by the younger gentleman, while I remained above to see it was no com·
bination or trickery. They paased through or under (1) a heavy oak door
• My recollection is that they fint originated in the adjoiDing room, ~
by • partition.-A. D. C.
Digitized by Google
Sept.,I886.J JoornoJ, of Society for Psychical Besea'I'Ch. 397
into a large dormitory, between its two rows of lilent sleepen, to the door
of a 1IDl8l1 apartment, known as the "ante-room." There tho dull creaking
.. foot-fall" tU"IM, retraced its pauage between the parallel row of beds,
found an exit by the door at the ltair-foot, followed by Mr. A. D. 0., and
.ascending the stair as before, died away about the second knob from the
top of the balustrade.* I think these were the plain facts of that evening'l
vigil. I ought, perhaps, to add that the lmall room known as the "ante-
n>om" had a large nail in its wall, bent down by lOme heavy weight. It
was said that a man "little of ltature" had hanged himlelf thereon.t Of
course I cannot vouch for this having been the case. But I do aver that
when the said .. ante-room" became my own bed-chamber, the presence of
-the said "nail," of the lize ulually known as "tenpenny," was IOmewhat
undesirable, from its MIOCiation with the above rumour. But I would not
make request for its removal ; deeming it better to forget its presence than
.Yield to a groundlelB fear of the intangible. I may not say how many timel,
while lying there, I have heard the same creaking tramp of footsteps up to
my door, then deliberately back to the same point of the ItaiN.t At first I
-was gravely annoyed, and would unclose tho door (which opened outwardly)
with ludden jerk, vainly thinking to trip up lOme IOmnambuliat, perchance;
but the steps retraced their normal way, while I looked on nothing save the
avenue np which they had glided. Once or twice I followed them up the
.tair by the moon-rays or with a candle; but alwaYI with the same effect-
the dying away of the Itrange noise upon the return flight of the ItaiN, and
a Ihort distance from its lummit. After I had occupied the room in question
lor lOme considerable period, probably two or three Ye&l"l, an alteration was
effected during the Midsummer vacation. The plaster of the "ante-room"
wall being in parts broken,-Ipecially round the nail, whose presence had
become to me a thing of course-it was restored, previous to the painting
.of the room ; and on my return after the month'l absence the bent nail was
gone. I had nothing to do with its removal; pro\lably it was thought un-
oBightly and unneceuary. But after that I cannot remember hearing the
.duceJtding "foot-ateps on the ltain" again.§ I have watched for them
when my avocation rendered it advisable to rise at an unusually early hour,
but they came not, as, with measured and privileged tramp up to the door,
othey had done till the removal of the "bent nail." I look upon this as
-the appendix of what yon have termed our" vigil." I don't know if what
I am about to relate may be termed a "vigil," as we had on this occasion
-no intention of watching. Owing to an inHux of viaiton, it became neceuary
one night (a Saturday evening) for me to vacate my Inug, newly-painted
-bedroom,1I and, together with one of the brothen(who had given up his room
also for a night or 10), to occupy a room" on the upper Hoor, used exclusively
-for •• weekly board8l"l," who were then gone home. It was close to the headof
• I think it died away in the lower room.. See plan.-A. D. O.
t Of this suicide there is no certain record. I remember the nail.-A. D. O.
::: I heard them ICM'U of times '" ktUt.-A. D. O•
.§ I remember the ceasing, and the watching for them in vain.-A. D. O.
II I do not remember this particular night.-A. D. O.
'IT Thia was No. 7, the box·room. I often heard noises there.-A. D. C.
Digitized by Google
398 Journal of Society for Psychical Ruearch. [Sept.,1886.
the ltairs where the said nocturnal sounds had begun and ended. I cannot
at this distance of time rememberat what hour we-both beingperfectly awab
-were disturbed by the seeming falling of a heavy body from the balllItrade
of the ltairs j there leemed to be efforts making to draw from the "fatal"
lpot_,pwarda~mething soddened and ponderous. One of us mounted on ..
bed (there was an empty bed each lide of the door) and looked out of the
" borrowed lights" that had been opened on the paBIIBgE-I presume in the
daYI of the obnoxious window-duty-and round from the ltair head came the
sound or lemblance of something whose weight rendf'red it difficult to draw ;
but distinctly between the attempts to overcome the inertia were heard the
shuftlings, mumed and dabbled, of what seemed the bearer'l feet. The
pauage where they passed was almost brilliant with the rays, direct or re-
Hooted, of an August moon, so that any practical joke would have been im-
pollible. After the labouring paces had leemingly IUCCeeded in reaching a
room that was for the night unoccupied, through the non-arrival of one viMtor,
there commenced upon the panell of its door, for it may be two or three
cousecutive minutes, a distinct Icratching, all of iron talons, from top to
Hoor, then a fall of the body, and a return down the pauage in the l&IDe
fallhion as before. I need not aay the unusual noise left us in a ltate by no
means enviable. I think tha.t one of us Wall awakened by the other who first
heard the noise on the ltair. On the following night the other * brother of
the family watched with me j though we had 110 intention of leaving the
room we did not think it necelBary to "lit up," but occupied our several
beds-I can scarcely aay rested in them. We took certain precautions to
make ounelvesdoubly lure there was no collusion, or rather to detoct
any if it existed, which Wall altogether improbable. About the same time
commenced the weird loundl from the fatal knob upon the ltair-ftight, the
labouring efforts to drag lOme unwieldy body upwards, then the Houndering
upon the puaage-Hoor, the slow advance all on the previous night up to the
door of the end room, and the return j but, to my dismay, this time the
BOund came through tM door of our dormitory t to within a few yards of our
bedl j and after what seemed a fierce scufHe of protracted length over a p&rt
of the Hoor that had been replaced with deal, when certain ltains had been
found indelible, they went out, leaving the idea of soddened footsteps fresIl
from a slaughter-house. Once in particular afterwards I remember hearing
the scratching on the door to which I have alluded. I Wall unwell, probably
with a slight attack of meallles,and remained in the "end-room" t for obvioUl
reasons. It Wall at mid-day, and the aame soundl all of a rake or fork, held
with a Itrong hand, and bent on tearing down the wood-work of the door,
were heard. I Wllol litting up, and to investigate at once left the room, whicll
was only parted from the next by panelling j but there Wall no one live
mYlelf, either on that Hoor or tho one below it. These are a few vivid
ncollectiona of circumstancel that I seldom Ipeak cf, though I may not douM
• It may be by the lapse of time that this partiCUlar oocurrence baa been oblite-
rated from my memory.-A.D.C.
t It was in this room I slept that cold winter'. night deacribed in Liql&L-A.D.C-
::: Numbered 8 [in the plaD].-A.D.C.
Digitized by Google
8ept..l886.] Jowrnal of Society for PsycMcal &search. 399
the clearness of my perception a.t the time they occurred. Neither is there
a.ny reason to think that they were the result of boyish freak. I have hea.rd
the footsteps first alluded to on several occasions when there were no boa.rders
sleeping in the room"through which they came, on their mea.aured tra.mping
to my door; but those on the upper-Hoor I only hea.rd on the two consecutive
nights I alluded to.
• ~ * * * *
It is a.bout a. qua.rter of a. century, perhaps longer. since the last unea.rthly
80unda were heard by me a.t that pla.ce. I never Bate a.nything, unleBl it were
a cloud-like, shapelO8l Dl&8II a.bove the mended or replaced Hoor, when the
muftled footsteps neared our beds; and that might have arisen from the
unavoidable feeling of horror that followed the a.dvent of sounds so atra.nge
and unaccounta.ble.*-YoUrB faithfully,
JAKES W.
Mr. W. writes again, in reply to our inquiries, on the 9th March,
1885.
* * * * * *
Now for your questions. (1.) The time of our "vigil" was the night of
-.June. 1854.. 1£it be asked how I remember, I reply that it was a week or
thereabouts before the commencement of the first Midsummer holidays after
my becoming "aaaiata.nt master" there. I went there in March, 1854. .As
the holidays generally commenced about the 15th of June, it must, there-
fore, have been about a week after the beginning of that month. 1 am not
10 clear as to the year in which the othel· event was registered in memory,
but from concurrent circumata.nces, judge it could not have been later tha.n
1856, a.nd as it succeeded the Midsummer holidays it was probably early in
the August of that year. The two consecutive nights alluded to were those
of the Saturday a.nd Sunday.
(2.) I cannot remember mentioning the matten, either at the time of their
occurrence or otherwise, in writing. Being aware that in some inata.nces the
supposition of the place being "haunted" might prove detrimental, I should
have restrained a.ny tendency to &8Iiat in sprea.ding it. Neither did I keep a
diary. I can remember being questioned by the "le8888 It of the house as
to a.ny "experience" I might have ha.d there, a.nd cautioned to "keep dark"
on the matter.
(3.) The elder brother was with me (we did not then" sit up ") cn the
evening of the first of the two consecutive nights to which I have a.dverted,
the Saturday evening. I suppose this may not be material, as to the beat of
my knowledge or recollection one slept in the room on the Saturday and the
other on the following night. I do not think I could affirm positively which on
which night. The room on the door of which the "acra.tching" took place
was void 011 the Sunday evening, through one visitor, who was expected,
having wa.lked on to his hoUle instea.d of halting at C. for the night. That
room being the usual sleeping pla.ce of the elder gentlema.n, he was, perhaps,
• I quite agree with the genera1l1&1'1"ative, although ddaiU are either new to me
or have escaped my memory.-A.D.C.
Digitized by Google
400 JO'Umal of Society for Psychical Research. [8ept.,188L
the oocupant of the aame room with me on the second evening. Perhapl
both brothen might have been; I am at a lou.
(4.) The "ante-room" referred to by me 'W8II a amall room entered
through the "lower room": the latter being not on the ground floor, but
up the first flight of stain and upon the second storey [i.e., the tint fioor]
of the house. It was, I imagine, 80 known to distinguish it from a room
above, also used for a dormitory, and named the "top room." The DaDle
" ante-room" was probably given to the small sleeping-room ao-called. by
some previous occupant of the place; it 'W8II suggested by one of the family
that the name should have been "anti-room."
(5.) In the opinion of a large majority, all sights and lOunds ofa suppoaed
ghostly nature might be termed .. hallucinations" and spoken of aa the
outcome of a disordered imagination, or the illusion of a defective vision. 1
navo not been at any time the subject of what might be properly 80 termed.
I have never heard in other hoUBe8 similar lOunds to those we are considering,
though I have since inhabited hoUBe8 whose (late was probably earlier by a
century.
(6.) I have no recollection of my being told that the handle of the door
turned or the door itself opened-I might have been so told. But on ocea-
sions when, in after small hoUl'B, I followed the aame weird noises, the door had
to be opened by my own hand. Of coune I do not doubt the testimony given,
-limply, I cannot remember.
(7.) The room on the upper floor from which I heard the burden draged
along was, 1 think, north of the "suicide's" room and adjoiniBg it.. There
were sundry traditions as to its having been the acene of another tragedy.
The room in which the preVious vigil 'W8II held wasalso adjoining the auicide'.
room, but to its Welt and-unlike the other-only parted therefrom by a
wooden partition. Said partition, however, in my judgment, was aa old u
the room itself; and, if "walla have ean" and things inanimate become
sometimel sentient, would have witneaaed the sad ending of & yoq
fnillife.
* * * * *
Mr. Co's sister, in a letter to us on January 23rd, 1885, says :-
In answer to your letter, I beg to state that I can tnlfAfuUy wrify the
facts contained in my brother's narrative, but that I would rather not enter
into the matter, nor have my name mentioned in connection with it. 1
could give no fNlh information, nothing beyond that which my brother hII
already written.
Miss W., the cousin referred to in Mr. A. D. C.'s account, writes as
follows :-
* * * * * *
April 11th, 1885.
On the night in question, I was sleeping in the room where the murder
was transacted. lIy mother and cousin, allO, were sleeping in the aame room.
They did not perceive anything. My bedstead was next to the door. We
were all asleep; the door b\lnt open with great force; I 'W8II auddenly
Digitized by Google
fM!Pt.,l886.] JO'/J/I"OOl of Society for Psychical Research. 401
awakened with the feeling of BOme horrible presence near, and the door
open. I did not see anything.
Once, only, when eleeping in the gueat chamber with a colllin, was I ever
alarmed before: when we both perceived that the door which had been shut
was wide open in the night, and my colllin got up to close it. This was in
the year 1850.
My brother is living in America. He could give you much information
of what he saw and heard. He lived in the houae BOme years. . . •
A.M.W.
In reply to a further inquiry :-
I believe it was in 1850 that I was staying in that haunted houae.
I have never had any similar experience elsewhere.
A.M. W.
We have written to Miss W.'s brother, but have received no reply.
The following statement is taken from Jackson's OX/OIf'd Journal
for Saturday, June 15th, 1799:-
On Saturday last an inqueat was taken at Clifton, in this county, before
R. Buckland, Gent., one of his Majeaty's Coroners, on the body of Mrs.
Sarah Fletcher. This lady put an end to her existence by hanging herself
with her pocket-handkerchief, which she fastened to a piece of small cord,
and affixed it to the curtain-rod of the bedstead in the room in which she
UBually elept. After a full inveatigation of the previoUB conduct of the
deceased, and the derangement of her mind appearing very evident from the
teatimony of the gentleman at whose houae this unfortunate affair happened,
as well as from many other circumatancea, the jury, without hesitation, found
a verdict-Lunacy. The husband of this unfortunate lady is an oflicel' in
the Navy, and is now on his paaaage to the East Indiea.
A similar notice appeared in the Gent16man's Magazine for 8th
June, 1799.
We have received the following account of the present condition of
the house:-
Balliol College, Oxford.
E. A. Jepson and I went over to see this" haunted houae" at Clifton
Hampden, March, 1885. It is now divided into two cottages. . • •
The door which the " ghost" is said to have opened-at the foot of the stairs
-is now permanently closed, as it aeparatea the two parts of the hoUBC. The
ceiling of the "ante-room" has been removed, and a staircase filla the place,
leading to the room over the "lower room." The" ante-room" is not
more than six feet square, and the "lower room "about eight or ten square
feet. Mr. and Mra.. B. oeeupy the part on the right, as you face the houae ;
Mrs. B. UBed to be in the C. family as cook, I believe. She was not at home,
but Mr. B. kindly showed UB over their part of the houae. He corroborates
the story of the unfaithfulness of Mr. F., and knew of the epitaph in Dor-
chester, but expressed disbelief in the stories of noises, &c., in the house.
He recounted a story of a noise which frightened him once in the house, a
2 C
Digitized by Google
402 J~ of SocUty for Psychical, &search. [Sept., 1886.
BOrt of tapping or ICratching, but which turned out to be a jasmine agaiJIIt
the window. Nothing was known about any other suicide to account for the
story of the bent nail in the "ante-room," as mentioned by J. S. W. Mr.
E. E. O. ,·isits the place annually, and seems a great favourite there.
We had not time to visit the other part containing the "suicide'. room ..
and the "box-room." At the back a aeries of cottages stretch away at right
angles to the house; they used to be kitchen, IChoolrooms, and dormitoriea.
A. H. BAlI8.uio.
It is to be regretted that the incidents described in the above
account took place between twenty and tbirty years ago,and that with the
exception of the passage extracted from Mr.A. D. C.'s diary, no contem-
poraneous account has been preserved. But, while differing on many
minor points, the three witnesses are agreed as to the character of the
principal disturbance-the sounds as of footfalls-and as to the time at
which they occurred,-2.45 a.m. It is true that almost any low sound
which is repeated at frequent and regular intervals, may be interpreted
as the BOund of footsteps; but it would be difficult to suggest any
normal cause for the sound here described, which could have escaped
detection for so many years.
It will be seen that there are several discrepancies between Mr.
A. D. C.'s narative and the accounts of the same incidents furnished by
Mr. E. E. C. and Miss W. But these discrepancies occur only in that
part of Mr. A. D. C.'s evidence which .relates to the experiences of
others, and cannot be held seriously to affect his accuracy as a first-
hand witness, so far as his general account of the "principal disturb-
ance" is concerned.
F.P.
September 9th, 1886.
As a rule we do not print in the G series cases where the experience
described has only affected the senses of a single person, and admits
therefore of being explained as a purely subjective hallucination. But
an exception may be made for a case like the following, where the
experience recurred agaln and again to a person in good health, who has
otherwise been entirely free from hallucinations of the senses. H sub-
jective,such an experience is at least a very interesting type of hallucina-
tion.
G.-480. From Miss Boyle, of 22, South Audley Street, W.
22, South Audley Street.
Many years ago I was travelling in Italy, with my mother and sister, and
after spending the winter at Rome, we went to Naples in the early spring,
and passed the whole of the summer in that beautiful city.
We first descended at a hotel in Santa Lucia, but finding the quarter
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1886.) JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical .Raearch. 403
noisy (it was the chief reeort of the fiahermen) my mother determined on
taking an apartment.
She lOOn found one to her mind, being the lower floor of the Palazzo
Caft'arelli, a delightful situation, the comer of the Chiaja and the Piazza
Caft'arelli, and clOl8 to the gardens of the Villa Reale.
The rooms were large and lofty, but two of the bedrooma, my mother's
and my own, had what in English eyes is generally reckoned the disad-
vantage of being pauage roomB. I, however, W88 delighted with my
dormitory, though it waa, like myself, the amalIeat of all. It formed the
comer j one window giving on the Piazza, the other on the Chiaja, and many
an hour have I spent at my window watching the blue wavea of the tideleaa
sea, 88 they danc8d in the golden sunshine, or the silvery moonlight. " A
Napoli non e mai notte," I once heard a man exclaim under my window,
and the proverbially merry Neapolitans sang, twanged their guitars, and
chattered the greater part of the night.
My powen of sleeping forsook me, not only on account of the varying
80unds already deacribed, added to the constant rumbling of beavy carta laden
with 1lax at this season of the year, but also on account of the well-known
excitable properties of the Neapolitan atmosphere. I W88 very sleepleaa.
Being obliged to leave my window open on account of the heat, I could not
darken the room without excluding the air, and every object in it W1I8 there-
fore partially visible.
There W88 but a short space between my mother's door and my aiater's
door, which were situated at right anglea to each other in a comer of my
room, and every night during the four months I spent at Naples, the figure
of a woman paaaed through these doors, which were always left open.
In the uncertain light I could only see that the form W88 that of a
woman apparently young from the outline and movement. Atfirst I thought
it was my aiater and called to her, but, receiving no answer, supposed she
had not heard me. For a few nights I paid little attention to the circum-
stance, 88 there were four women in the house besides myself, and it might
euily have been one of these, but gradually I became attracted with the
peculiar gliding movement of the figure, and the fact that I never received
an answer to my constant challenge of "Who's there 1". I resolved on the
next opportunity to jump from my bed and follow the intruder into my
aiater's room. I did 80 more than once, and each time the form vanished on
the threshold. I thought it better not to mention the circumstance to the
servants, leut of all to the Neapolitan, but I spoke of it to my mother and
aiater, who both laughed at my superstitious fears. A little offended by
this, I entered no more on the subject with them, for indeed I had no fears.
The appearance of my mysterious visitor did not cause an extra beat to my
heart or pulse, but I set to work to argue with myself the poaBibility of the
whole affair being a freak of the imagination, and I thought "I will look up
and see her now." She did not come at my bidding, and later on, when
plunged in a reverie respecting my favourite brother at achool in England, or
in recalling the delights of a moonlight ride on the preceding evening-then,
when I had quite forgotten Her, I heard the rustle, raised my head, and
saw her paa8 through the accustomed door.
202
Digitized by Google
404 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Sept., l.886.
My mother, who felt the heat of the Italian summer very much, changed
her apartment for one with a cooler aspect, and I took poaaeaaion of the bed
she had just vacated. I wondered if 1M would appear to me there.
Ye8, every night; the hour varied, U WI\8 my time for going to rest, but
the visit certain.
I became at lut rather attached to the apparition, and should have felt
slighted if she had omitted to come. There were oocaaionally strange sounds,
and screams, heard by other inmates of the house, but I was the only per·
son favoured with a sight of the Unaccountable; for unaccountable this
episode appeared to me, unleaa the following conversation with the "Donna
di faccenda" can be accepted as a solution of the mystery.
I wu complaining one day of my aleeple88ne88,
"Ah, signorina," said Teresa compassionately, "I often wonder you c&n
sleep at 0.11, in a room where a young compatriot of yours died of a broken
heart, for the love of the Prince of Capua."
Muy BoYLE.
October 12th, 1884.
In answer to the question whether ahe had ever experienced hallucinatiolll
on other oocaaiona, Mias Boyle replied, on March 1, 1885 ;-1 never had any
other experience of the kind.
AUTOMATIC WRITING.
The following is an abstract of an account published in Psychi8cM
Studien, February, 1884, p. 149. (" Aus Meiner Erfahrung. Philo-
logische Rii.thsel Mediumistisch Aufgegeben," by the Editor.)
M. Akaakof and his sister-in-law, a lady of 40, and his step-son, a young
man of 20, had held a series of sitt.ings, in which communicatioll8 in various
languages had been received through table tiltinga, and through a planchette,
which stood upon a card on which was printed the French and Ruaian
alphabets.
At the 57th seance a request was made through tilts for the RUBBian
alphabet. After some RU88ian sentences had been given, pIanchette turned
to the French alphabet. M. Akaakof took no mediumistic part in the
experiments, but sat at another table, writing down the letters pointed out
by planchette, and which one of the mediums dictated to him.
The following were the letters which he wrote down ;-
emekhabaccha
which was said by:pIanchette to be a Hebrew saying, signifying "the Vale
of Tears."
M. Akaakof requested that the sentence might be repeated in the Ruaaian
alphabet.
This was done. (The mediums who dictated the letters without under-
standing what they meant, could not have done this themselves, and they
did not see the note-book.)
gitized by (.oogI
Sept.,1886.] Journal of SocUty for Psychical Research. 405
On beiDg asked where these worde came from, a reply waa received that
they were a well-known saying of a Portuguese Jewish doctor, whOle name-
planchette believed-wD8 .. Sardovy."
Here the .ea.nce waa interrupted by tea. M. Akaakof turned at once to
a Hebrew lexicon, and found the sentence" emek habacca "-" Vale of
Tears." He further learnt from the dictionary that the sentence occurs only
once in the Old Testament, namely, ill the 84th Psalm, verae 7.
The saying waa quite unknown to M. Akaakof. It waa 30 yeara since
he had studied Hebrew a little, and he had never advanced beyond the first
chapter of Genesis, and the first ten paalma. The quotation waa right, but
for the change of •habacca' to •habaccha. ' And turning to a French
tranalation by Cahen of the Hebrew Bible, M. Akaakof found these
worde tranalated "la valllSe de Bacha," in which the syllable "ca" waa
spelt .. cha."
He could not find the name Sardovy in a biographical lexicon. Re-
turning to the .ea.nce-room, he found that the mediums had re-seated them-
selves at the table, and that planchette had jU8t spelt out, .. Look in the
dictiona.ry for B. Cardosio." As M. Akaakof sat down planchette continued,
" I remember that the name is not Sardovy, but Cardovy j but no, I am still
making a mistake, he is called Cardosy," and then going over to the Latin
alphabet-" Cardosio b." On being D8ked what b signified, planchette
continued, .. His name-B. Cardosio, a lelU'Ded doctor. who in his time
was well-known." Being D8ked as to the connection between this and the
Hebrew letters, planchette replied, .. A celebrated motto."
At the conclusion of the .ea.nce M. Akaakof consulted Didot's Nouvelle
Biographie Unitlerlelle, and found :-"Cardoso (Fernando), Portuguese doctor,
born about the beginning of the 17th century . . . who won great fame
in his profession. . . • It WD8 a curious fact in the life of this IIImtlt
that he gave up the Christian religion to return to the Jewish creed. . . "
This time, therefore, the surname and the characteristic details were
right, the only mistake being in the Christian name, which WD8 of little
importance. Whether the motto WD8 really much used by Cardoso, one
cannot tell without a perusal of his works, and this M. Akaakof has had no
opportunity of accomplishing.
M. Akaakof calla the attention of those who would view this occurrence
aa transference of a latent thought, to the following points :-That hiahands
did not touch planchette, that he sat at another table, and was isolated from
all contact with the mediums j that the name WD8 given first D8 Sardovy, then
Cardovy, and lastly D8 Cardosio, with details of the biography of a man
wh08e name even was not mentioned in ordiaary biographical dictionaries j
that had the Hebrew worde come from him, he would have been able to say
with certainty that the sentence was in the Old Testament, or with greater
precision still, in the Psalms. No other sources were known to him; he
never would have connected the words with a Jewish Portuguese doctor; he
would never have aBBerted that the motto WD8 Cardosio's, when the name
even was unknown to him.
There is a logical impouibility in such a view, which M. Akaakof believes
gitized by (.oogI
406 Journal of SocUty JOT Psychical &search. [Sept., l886.
will be the greatest di16.culty, those will have to contend with, who deny lID
intelligence exterior to that of the sitters.
ProfeB80r Butlerow was also present at the Bitting.
Since translating the above I have had a personal interview with
M. Aksa.kof. He repeats that hiB knowledge of Hebrew was of a most
elementary nature, enabling him with the help of a dictionary to pick
out a few words only. His step-son knew no Hebrew.
He wishes to call especial attention to a point which he regrets
having omitted to comment upon in his original paper, namely, that
even though it were possible to suppose that the Hebrew words could
have been unconsciously impressed on his brain, there is a very much
larger assumption involved, if it be maintained that the meaning conld
likewise have been unconsciously impressed.
J. H.s.
M. Aksakof writes on the 17th August, 1886:-
I have been in the British Museum and found there some of the worka of
Fen14ndo CardolO, namely :-
1. De las utilidades del Agua, Madrid, 1637.
2. Discorso sobre el Vesuvio, Madrid, 1632.
3. Philosophia libera, Venetiiz, 1673.
4. Las Excellencias de los Hebreos, Amsterdam, 1678.
The last two works were published by him under the name of IIQ.C,
Cardoso, after baving embraced the Hebrew religion, and are, I think, the
most important. I have perused all the four volumes, but did not find the
motto.
Aocording to the Biog-raphie Univer&elle de Michaud (nouvt'lle Mition),
there are some other works of Cardoso, and among them are given the titles
of: "De febri syncopei," Madrid, 1634. "Panegyrico del color verde," ib.•
1635, which arc not in the Library of the British Museum.
And so, however, it is not positively proven, but I am inclined to conclude
that the reference, as regards the motto, is wrong. Its confinnation would
be valuable, but the important point remains (Cardoso's name, with particu-
lars, &c.).
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYOHICAL REsLutCH.
Su,-Like many others I must submit to hard names and be considered
" unreliable" ; as this was exactly my attitude not long ago towards the
Spiritualists, I deserve all I get. However, after careful investigations and
a great many seances, I am convinced and content, be I in your opinion
scientific, accurateI or mad. What I have said and done has only been to aid
others in my feeble way to what appeared to me truth, and as truth will out,
I can o.frord to wait. In my saying "the slates were cleaned," I ought to have
said "Mr. Eglinton's slates were-cleaned." Thetbree I bought were uncleaned,
and can be viewed by any doubting the fact. No one can rob me of the
Digitized by Google
Sept., 1886.] Jou7"1Ud of Society for Psychical hsearch. 407
evidence of my own I18nses under the following circumstances. I take my
own folding slates, hold these in mid air between the medium and Dlyself,
have a friend in her normal condition to sit by and watch with me, and under
t1&ue conditions get writing in the folding slate. I fail to see here the chance
to cheat, and cannot but believe.-Iam, Sir, youn obediently,
H. K. BRDTZCXB.
To the Editor oj 1M J OtJRNAL OJ!' THE SocnrrY POR PSYCHICAL RESBARCB.
Sm,-As I find Mrs. Sidgwick's letter in your last Journal (for August)
would lead to, indeed seems to rest upon, a misconception of my previous note
in BOme particulars, I now wish as shortly I\B poBBible to make my sense clearer.
Mrs. Sidgwick says that I have expressed "surprille that a believer in
telepathy should feel any difficulty in lIoCCepting Mr. Eglinton's phenomena
as genuine." I never used the word "genuine," for which the substitution of
the word pollible would be correct ; and I made no reference whatever to
"telepathy," but to one special case of planchette-writing, well-known as
the NeumlIam, to which a considerable part of the first half-yeal"ly report for
1885 was devoted. It is no simple case of telepathy, but a much more
involved example of those psychical puzzles the Society have I18t themselves
the task of explaining. True, telepathy may account for the unconscious
transference of thought in the first place from Mr. Newnham to his wife, the
medium ; but after that several unknown psychical proceBBes are required to
complete the chain which ends in a written answer to an unknown question.
For at no time does Mrs. Newnham have any conscious idea of her husband's
ailent questioning. Each question therefore received, let us say telepathically,
by Mrs. Newnham had to be submitted unconsciously to her sub-conscious
self, an answer found, and still again transmitted by unconscious muscular
action to the planchette pencil (1), such answer finally from its immorality
being unrecognisable by Mr. Newnham as that at all likely to come from his
wife. So curious an illustration of psychical power cannot be passed out
of argument as simply" telepathy."
Mrs. Sidgwick then goes on to hint that perhaps I mean that "anyone
taking one step away from scientific orthodoxy" (as with her belief in the
Newnham marvels)-" accepting as a truth anything not generally admitted
by scientific men-is logically bound to believe everything else." Of course
not. My argument WI\B rather this : that, given a certain series of reported
and unusual phenomena bearing a great impreasion oj exterior resemblance and
clOle relation, yet of an incredible nature, it would be just and scientific that
an investigator hitherto a stranger and disbeliever in all, should, on finding
one to be true-however explained-at least for a little suspend judgment or
be careful in rejecting the reat--alao poSBibly true, however explained. I
consider myself quite justified in seeing on the face of things some resem-
blance between the Newnham case and Mr. Eglinton's occult writing as
reported, inasmuch /loB in the latter there is only an extended or additional
invisible as well as unconscious power over a pencil for the answering of
unknown questions. But Mrs. Sidgwick had, as I am rather glad to record
again, .. no huitation" at all in ascribing slate-writing to conjuring, a very
di1l"erent position indeed from that of adepts themselves in conjuring such
Digitized by Google
408 Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Resea,'Ch. [Sept.,188&.
as Angelo J. Lewis (Profe880r Hoft'man) and Dr. Hel'llChell, and far more,
from that of lOme eminent authorities in lIOience.
Still, after all, I think Mn. Sidgwick in these worda and verdict jut
quoted surely oventates her inward convictions as to possibilities. For I
read in her last letter that ahe has been investigating Spiritualism for 12
yean. This presents to me a picture of a very rema.rkable period of hesita-
tion, not likely either, I fully believe, to be BOOn ended. The facta remain
and increase, yet being of 10 delicate a kind, requiring diapaaaionate,
even sympathic interest for the time, will ever remain a riddle to those who
approach them with the moods of mind which are represented by hard and
fast outward conclusions and condescending criticism.
I need not enter into what would become IUl interminable argument upon
methods of investigation. The suggestion Mn. Sidgwick makes is a good one,
but if succeaaful is not neceaaarily, I fear, convincing. Equally striking
proofs exist in both Zollner's and Crookes' books, but apparently are of
small service.-I am, sir, youn obediently,
Cove, Dumbartonahire, N.B.
6th:8:86.
J. MUlULA.Y TEMPLETON.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL 01' TUB SOOIBTY FOR PSYC!lICAL R.BsJuRcH.
Sm,-I venture to expreaa a hope that the Council of the Society for
Psychical Research, or Mr. A., "the amateur conjurer," will be able to
proclaim that Mr. A. and S. J. D. are not one and the same penon, as has
been suggested in lOme criticisms that have appeared in Light on the evidence
furnished by Mr. A., "the amateur conjurer," of which Mrs. Sidgwick
availed henolf.
I havo no wish whatever to know who Mr. A. is. and I have no right to
ask. When a writer wishes his name to be concealed that wish is entitled to
respect; but this principle will not be violated by the announCement I suggest,
as I believe that the reoden of the Journal will, in common with myself, be
as much in ignorance a8 to who Mr. A. is after we have learnt, as I hope we
ahalliearn, that he is not S. J. D., as we were before.-I remain, air, your
obedient servant,
44, Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
Augmt 27th, 1886.
[Mr.Wyndham's letter will be laid before the Council at the next meeting,
which, as at present arranged, will be on October 15th.-ED.]
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
The price at which this book (2 voh. octavo) will be issued is one
guinea. One copy will be supplied to every present Member of the
Society who has paid his subscription for the current year, for 58. 3d. and
the cost of carriage or postage; and to every present Associate who has
paid his subscription for the current year, for lOs. 6d. and the cost of
carriage or postage. Members and Associates who desire copies are
requested to send their names to the Assistant Secretary, at 14, Dean's
Yard, S.W.
Digitized by Google
