{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_n_fde.html","mytitle":"Maria N FDE 3493","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria N FDE 3493  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria N FDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1593 Maria N FDE 3493  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was on a morning in the month of November. Holding my five-year-old's hand, I crossed one of the streets of the city. I don't know at which moment I crossed from one street to the other without noticing that, as I crossed, towards me came a truck that would take my life. In that moment I saw myself enveloped in an invisible bubble. I floated. I felt as if I'd entered another realm of time.

There was a tranquility, a peace, beautiful music in the environment. I felt, at that moment, that I was in a wonderful place, full of peace and love. There was no time - nothing. I felt only that peace, that love, and heard that music. Something protected me. I felt as if I'd always been there.

Suddenly, I felt a tug on my hand. My daughter had removed me from the path of the truck that would irremediably have killed me if she hadn't reacted in that manner. At that moment, I left the bubble and returned to reality.

My daughter said: 'Mama, that truck was going to trample you.' The people that were present looked at me. I only remained 'lost' in the experience I'd had. How much time had passed? Only a few moments and for me it was a long time in that bubble. I don't know what to think but since that day, I desire that moment and think that death is something beautiful; that something protects you from pain; that there is no suffering.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  noviembre del 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other experiencia cercana a la muerte  I was threatened by death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the bubble.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the bubble.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Something lasting as if I'd been there a long time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In another space. I don't know how to explain it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only that music; nothing external.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Only another place.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     el tiempo otro  estado n de lugar sino tiempo

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. Being protected.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     That being near death is something wonderful.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Futures; all my life I've had similar events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I didn't know danger; I only saw myself enveloped in that moment in peace, love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Everything was clear.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Since I was seven years old I've had paranormal experiences. This is one of them it can be said without making too much of it. I only mention it to give one example.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm known for the experiences I've had, and what I say and the veracity of my words are known.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   From the time I was a child I have something I can't explain.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Every time I recall it I re-live it as if it had just occurred.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_n_fde.html