{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_gp_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Maria GP Possible NDE 5378","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria GP Possible NDE 5378  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria GP Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2874 Maria GP Possible NDE 5378  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in pain for many hours and could not achieve dilation. I was an'sthetized for a c'sarean section and went to sleep straightaway. 

The next thing I remember, there was a being welcoming me. I could not see his face clearly but I knew he was very familiar to me. He was saying something like ‘Here you are! I've been expecting you’. It was a communication in the mind. The being stayed behind while I floated on, being pulled along by a wonderful river of lights. The river took a right turn, and I was in front of two enormous screens, depicting rounded forms made of constantly moving lights and colors. I stood before them, feeling that I was required to understand the movement of those lights. It was similar to needing to figure out a password.  

Leaving the screens behind, I found myself in darkness. At this point, the feeling of wisdom was enormous, and my heart was overflowing with love. I remembered Jesus, as if I were He. I turned towards the left, and there, at the end of a sort of tunnel, I saw a shining sphere. It spoke to me telepathically (I guess,) and said ‘Not yet, you have to return and guide your family’. Then the light became dimmer and a reddish color. I saw what looked like two three-dimensional busts drawing near. I recognized the faces on the busts as they passed next to me, as one seemed to be of me, and the other my husband. I put myself inside the one that was of me. 

I don't know how long this lasted, but that is the last I remember of my experience. I awoke feeling very cold, but at no point was this because I was afraid as I was in my own home. After all these years, I still feel that coldness inside me, just as I have it while writing this.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5 abril 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. Childbirth    Other Parto por cesarea

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how long it lasted.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I did not go right through it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Yes, in the distance, suspended at medium height.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and wisdom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     When a being came to me, I knew him. He welcomed me and seemed to me, to be my husband.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I crossed two boundaries.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I suddenly knew everything, and loved everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I seemed to be returning home after a long trip, but more in feeling than in images. I also had the feeling of knowing everything and loving everyone. It was like an explosion of happiness inside me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know, but what is certain is that the experience unites you with the Universe and puts everything into perspective. I am much stronger facing the pains of the soul-life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have never had this beautiful feeling of love again. You can love your family, but that was a love experience multiplied to infinity.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    On waking, my first impulse was to explain it as a very strange dream. I was told it must be something to do with the anesthesia but I had had other operations, so no. I did not think any more about it until one day I saw a report on the TV.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After finding out what this experience may have really been, I told everyone 'See! It wasn't a dream!' Now we joke about me being a zombie.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     We all have to die anyway.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I highly recommend it!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it was sufficient for me to explain everything.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_gp_possible_nde.html