{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mari_luz_cb_nde.html","mytitle":"Mari Luz CB NDE 4003","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mari Luz CB NDE 4003  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mari Luz CB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1932 Mari Luz CB NDE 4003  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was playing a game of basketball at school, when the ball left the court. I ran towards it, picked it up and turned my head in order to throw the ball, which is when I struck my temple on an iron bar. This is where my experience began.

I was looking down on the whole schoolyard from above, as though floating in the air, and could see my fellow-players weeping and crying out. I was to their right; the teacher had his back to me, kneeling over a girl who was laid out on the ground. Approaching, I asked what was going on, but nobody answered me. The teacher was shaking her and slapping her with the palm of his hand on her face, and at this point, I realized that the girl on the ground being slapped was me. I had my mouth open and my eyes were open too, but vacant. The teacher (at the same time as he tried to revive me) was shouting, 'Oh my God, Oh my God, wake up!' From my position (above and to the right of the whole scene), I could see everything that happened over the whole schoolyard with great clarity, the children and the people by the fence. I heard their comments about what was happening. I could see children going in and out of the playground, cars passing by, when suddenly I found myself in darkness where something or someone was drawing me to them, and the closer I got the more comfortable I felt. My 'pleasure' intensified to the highest degree the further I drew away from life, I realized, and so I wanted to come back.

I woke up and the first thing I asked was how my mouth and my eyes were.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Other Traumatismo craneoencefálico

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout, although I did not know what was happening (why no one spoke to me, why they were crying if I was okay) Let's say that the moment of greatest consciousness or alertness could have been when I realized that if I allowed myself to be carried along by that pleasurable feeling, life would be ebbing away.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was a strange feeling, more to do with space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Everything was dark, rather confined but very comfortable.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt rather than saw a beloved being who was guiding me towards 'wellbeing'.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   From darkness things were becoming lighter.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Death.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not so much the fact of expressing it as being understood, comprehended.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The experience happened at twelve years old, but until I was twenty I did not tell anyone. Watching a TV program where a woman was telling about a very similar experience to mine, I realized that I was not a 'rare beast' and I told my husband about it. He reacted very well, and understood me. Others reacted differently, made jokes and laughed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right from the start I saw that this was a real experience, and I compared what I saw with what I was told, once I woke up.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Although much time has passed, I still think that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After the experience, or life moment, I was very disoriented, alone, facing the quite extraordinary fact which had happened to me. I asked myself many questions, which had no answers. But what definitely remained clear to me, and in a kind of way comforted me, was the feeling that death is not something to be feared.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Actually I've read very little on this subject and this is the first time I've filled out a questionnaire on the experience, but it seemed very clear and concise, with nothing missed out.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mari_luz_cb_nde.html