{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mari_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Mari L NDE 3129","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mari L NDE 3129  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mari L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1122  Mari L NDE  3129  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My heart stopped and I left my body through my head. I had no pain when I left my body. If you can't breathe you must came out from your body. But I was a new mother and wanted to see my little girl grown up. I don't wanted to die. I wanted to come back in my body and be with my newborn daughter. But I couldn't. I tried to go back in my body. I was drawing away with a force not of this world. I was locked out and couldn't of my own force go back into my body. I cried to God to let me live. I promised God to do things that I haven't done. I don't gave up. I tried again and again and again and again.

Suddenly God let me go back. I was sucked or drawn back through my heart, not by my head as I had left my body. I had to help my heart to breath. I held onto attachment with my little girl. But I felt that if I died once more I couldn't came back again. I wanted to come to a mirror to see if I had a head.

I saw light and heard noise on my right side when God let me come back to life and to my daughter.

Thank You for listen to my testimony that we share. The true believer will desire to witness to what God has done for him/her. I am assured of God's presence and his love. God call people into closer walk with him. But Jesus said that blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed in John. And God bless you abundantly.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 1971

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  It was almost impossible to come back into my body. I struggled like a lion.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time stopped.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I could see everything around me in a wide way. Your eyes are so limited in your body.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Everything was closed. Quite another sound. You communicate by thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     God.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   When I come back in my body. On the right side.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I wanted to come back in my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was concerned if I had lived a good life. I had thoughts. I think that the light changed me. I have been more intelligent!

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I got a call.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I have been a Christian but it took time.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have been a Christian but it took time.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood that when you die you're are not alone.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Everything has been changed.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The words we use in this world cannot be translated to the words in the world of God.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     In dreams I see what shall happen in the future.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Now I know how it is to die. My daughter died in India 2006 and I know that she also lives in a new dimension.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    More than ten years. I told my man. I saw a program in the TV about near-death-experiences. And I started crying and said to him that I had been dead.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No   Never.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I was totally dizzy I had been died but I had return to the life. I had a tremendous secret. Why me? Why came just I back?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     The greatest experience that has happened to me. I wonder if someone else can deal with this with me. After many years I hope to meet someone like me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   When I got a son in 1986 my heart stopped again.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      We have the best in ahead of us. By dying I know that we don't die.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It was very good. I thank you very much and hope that I can contribute with some knowledge. God bless you.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mari_l_nde.html