{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maria_c_nde_4541.html","mytitle":"Maria C NDE 4541","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maria C NDE 4541  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maria C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2287 Maria C NDE 4541  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember that I woke up with a headache, but I suffer from migraine since I was about five years old, this time I was thirty-three years old and I was three days with a bad headache. I went to my in-laws and my father-in-law gave me something for the pain but it wasn't getting better. After that I got home my husband went out, for a while after he got back, I was already vomiting and my pain got worst. I told him to take me to the emergency room, which he did. I remember in the hospital they injected me with some painkiller and I was feeling a little better. I do remember telling that I was sleepy and if I fell asleep to wake me up and not let me sleep for long. That is all I remember. 

He told me that I never woke up and the ambulance took me to another Hospital to do a CT scan, which showed that I was having a hemorrhage. At the time I fell asleep, I never woke up.  So, they left me in the intensive care unit. My mom told me that I was in a comma for two weeks and that I did not have any reaction with the medication and treatments that I had done there. 

I clearly remember seeing myself walking through a tunnel. While I walked, well, it was like floating more than walking, I felt peace, no worries, angelical music, and a bright clear light like a star, like a diamond. At the end of the tunnel there was this man, he looked just like the pictures we see here of Jesus. He took me by my hand and said to me, 'This is not you time.' In a floating motion, he turned me around and sent me back. I know that after that, I saw a vision of a lot of people dying.  It was like it was the end of mankind and ever since I still have these images in my head.

My husband wanted to take me out of the machine, I have written proof of that, but my parents said no, so they tried another treatment and I woke up but with no memory at all. The only thing that I remember was what happened to me going through the tunnel. I did not know who I was, didn't know I had kids, totally memory loss. About two months after the hemorrhage, I was in the doctor's office, and as I was sitting, it was like a movie mostly of images came through, like a movie and I suddenly remembered my daughter, that I was pregnant but sadly that is still today I barely have a small amount of memory of my past. Don't remember when I was little; don't remember most of my friends and many other things. I still have three brain aneurisms and am just trying to survive.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 19, 1994'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Other Brain Aneurisyms  I had a brain hemorrhage, was hooked to the respiration machine, and was in a coma for two weeks.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   None, I was in a coma.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None, I was in a coma.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, sense that I was in a peaceful environment, bright and I would have wanted to stay there because I wasn't afraid.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     In this tunnel at the end there was a bright light and it was pulling me to the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     At the end of the tunnel there was a man, and I describe him, like the photos you see of Jesus, nowadays, it was just like him. And I felt like I knew him, I wasn't afraid and He spoke to me, I never said anything.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a bright light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, silence, no pain, happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very clear and I could feel the pain and agony too.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was said a lot of different things in church and for what happened don't know. I have to figure this out with my religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was said a lot of different things in church and for what happened don't know. I have to figure this out with my religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Don't understand well the question.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I think so because I can sense things and I am afraid of talking about this because people would say I'm crazy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, when he said it was not your time I knew it wasn't time for me to die at that time because when I woke up from the coma I had no recollection at all in what had happen to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I felt it was real, I kind of know this really happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I felt it was real everything was so clear.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, I am very sensitive, it's like I have a six sense and I can see and speak to dead people. I have done this after my experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maria_c_nde_4541.html