{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5052","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n33_oct_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N33 October 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. ltXXIIl.-VOL. IL
JOURNAL
oJ'TJUI
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COIITBIIT5.
PAlla
~t of General MeetiDg... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 409
OIl the lIeportI, printed in the JouriJal for June, of Sittings with Mr. Eglinton ... 409
Mr. Esliaton ... ... 431
Can.Pondence ... ... 439
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
The next General Meeting of the Society will be held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall.
S.W., on Friday, the 29th of October, when a paper will be read
by Mr. Frederic W. H. Myers on "Multiplex Peraonality."The
chair will be taken at 8.30 p.m.
ON THE REPORTS, PRINTED IN THE JOURNAL FOR
JUNE, OF SITTINGS WITH MR. EGLINTON.
By RICBABD HODGSON.
I propose in the following paper to diacuaa in some detail the
evidential value of the reports printed in the Journal for June, concern-
ing sittings with Eglinton. This, it may be said, haa already been
done in the admirable paper by Mr. Lewis in the JourntJl for August.
But Mr. Lewis baa dealt very alightly with the reports in queation after
the manner in which I ahall endeavour to treat them.
I am convinced that the reports, aa a whole, are not reliable,
and that they are no more unreliable than we should expect them to be
if the alate-writing in all the caaea recorded waa the result of conjuring;
in other words, that they are completely in harmony with the aupposi-
tion that the slate-writing throughout is due to conjuring. Few rational
inquirers would deny the tenability of this position if I could
produce a similar aeriea of reports where the slate-writing was
known independently to be the result of conjuring; many will refuse
to admit its tenability unleaa BUch a aeries can be produced. There are,
UDfortunately, aeveral difficulties in the way of obtaining adequate
reports .of this kind.
Among the difficulties to which I refer are these. In the first place,
Eglinton baa had much greater practice and experiencethan any person
who is likely to be available for a long aeries of sittings at which he will
2 D
Digitized by Google
410 J01.wnal of Society fm' Psychical Research. [Oct.,1886.
produce the slate-writing phenomena by the aid of conjuring. Pr0-
ficiency in the production of apparently "occult" slate-writing
requires not only practice in the manipulation of slates, «c., but a
lengthened experience of sitters, which cannot be acquired in a short
time by a person who is chiefly occupied with other business.
In the second place,it is impossible to induce the same peculiarity of
mental attitude in the sitters with a professed conjurer, as they would
have assumed had they been sitting with Eglinton. I think I may
safely say that not a single person of all those whose reports were pub-
lished in the Journal for June felt certain beforehand that Eglinton's
performances were explicable by conjuring; indeed, I may go further
and say that nearly all, if not all, thought it not improbable that the
phenomena were genuine, and that most of them had been strongly
impressed by reports which they had previously heard or read. Now
the evidence of a person holding this attitude is likely to be of
decidedly less value crete", paribU8 than that of a person who fully
believes that he is watching a conjuring trick. I do not mean that there
is a reluctance on his part to say or do a.nything which may imply a
direct suspicion of the honesty of the" medium," or that, so far as his
attention is directed at all, it is directed to the observation of the con-
ditions at the time when the "occult" agency is supposed to be actually
producing the writing; though from these causes also, in many cases,
his testimony is likely to be less rello.ble. What I mean is that the idea
ofcommunication from the "spirit-world," or of some supernormal power
in the" medium," will, in most persons, possess activity enough, even
before any results are obtained, to interfere more or less with the obser-
vation of the conditions involved; and after the results are obtained, the
dominance of the idea will frequently be great enough to contribute
very materially to the naturally speedy oblivescence. of many details of
the sitting which were hardly noticed at the time of their occurrence,
which in the course perhaps of an hour or two have dimmed out
of recollection, but which, nevertheless, would have suggested the
secret of the trick. Under this head I may also refer to the fact that
the conversation held by the sitters with a professed conjurer will
probably·be of less a.vail in distracting tbeir attention than if they
were sitting with a" medium" with any the smallest expectation that
" occult" phenomena. might occur. In the former case they are well
aware that the conversation is for the express purpose of distracting
their attention from the movements of the conjurer; in the latter case.
they endeavour to a certain extent to occupy the mind with matters
foreign to the sequence of events then and there transpiring.
In the third place, comparatively few persons are willing to write
out reports of slate-writing experiences with a full account of
Digitized by Google
()et., 1886.] Journal of Society for PsycM-cal Researclt. 411
the supposed test conditions, if they have any suspicion that
the writing has been produced by mere conjuring. They are
afraid of appearing ridiculous, and in this dread, if they are per-
suaded to write reports at all, they write them with a meagre
allowance of detail, and with an abstention from dogmatic statement.
No doubt the fear of ridicule has deterred many persons from writing
reports on behalf of the professed "medium," but I cannot disguise
from myselfthe fact that when this fear has been overcome by the
enthusiasm which often accompanies the formation of a new belief, the
reports then are less to be trusted, by reason of that very enthusiasm.
Analogous to that undeliberate warping of evidence which arises from
the desire to justify the adoption of a new faith and to aid in
proselytising others, is that which arises from the desire to strengthen
the grounds of a conviction which has already been fully formed.
Possibly a wider experience may result in our finding a counterpart to
this in the testimonials to professed conjuring performances, but my
experience hitherto leads me to think that such a result is highly
improbable.
Notwithstanding these difficulties, however, I believe tbat sufficient
evidence will eventually be forthcoming to convince any intelligent and
impartial inquirer of the justice of the conclusion which Mrs.
Sidgwick has expressed, that she has now no hesitation in attributing
Eglinton's slate-writing performances to conjuring. I think it will
appear that those who do hesitate to place them in the category of
conjuring are prejudiced in favour of ordinary human powers of
observation and recollection under-it is to be remembered--excep-
tionally adverse circumstances; and that they are thus prejudiced
simply because they have never made any special experiments with the
view of ascertaining exactly how much reliance can be placed upon
the reports of even acute and intelligent observers of the slate-
'writing performances of a conjurer known as such. They have decided
apriori as to the capacity of human perception and memory under
quite peculiar conditions, and most of them, I venture to say, have
thus decided, not only -without possessing any familiarity with the
various modes of producing slate-writing by conjuring, but without
possessing any familiarity with conjuring tricks in general, and without
being aware of the extent to which we are all subject to iUuaionB
0/ Me'I'IW'f"'V, which, in relation to the reports before us, are far more
deserving of consideration than even illusions of Perception.
In saying this, I am as far as possible from wishing to maintain an
attitude of superiority. In fact, our absolute deficiency, as to both
Perception and Memory, was strongly impressed upon lire Hogg and
myself when we wrote the report of our sittings with EgJinton in June,
Digitized by~cf08le
412 Journal of Society for Psychical &search. [Oct.,1886.
1884. Since then I have had a somewhat considerable and varied ex-
perience in comparing the testimonies of numerous bond jidtJ witnesses
to events belonging to the class of conjuring performances. The most
instructive to me in the first instance were the different accounts which
I heard from eye-witnesses of the tricks of the Hindoo jugglers. I saw
many of these performances, and saw them frequently, and having learnt
secretly from the jugglers themselves how they were done, I was ther&-
after in a position to compare the accounts of them with the actual
occurrences. The incident which impressed me mostin this connection is
one which I have often related, but which I now recount in writing for
the first time. I regret, for obvious reasons, that I was not foreseeing
enough to make a careful record when the incident happened, and obtain
the signatures of the lady and gentleman concerned.
The juggler was sitting upon the ground immediately in front of the
hotel, with his feet crossed. Two small carved wooden figures were
resting on the ground, about two feet distant from the juggler. Some
coins were also lying on the ground near the figures. The juggler began
talking to the figures, which moved at intervals, bowing, .. kissing,It (Uld
bumping against each other. The coins also began to move, and one of
them apparently sprang from the ground and struck one of the figures
An officer and his wife, who had but recently arrived at the hotel, were
spectators with myself, and we stood probably within two yards' distance
of the juggler. I knew how the trick was performed; they did not know.
The officer drew a coin from his pocket, and asked the juggler if this
coin would also jump. The juggler replied in the affirmative, and the
coin was then placed near the others on the ground, after which it
betrayed the same propensity to gymnastic feats as the juggler'S own
coins. Two or three other tra.vellers were present at dinner in the
evening of the same day, and in the course of the conversation the
officer described the marvellous trick which he had witnessed in the
afternoon. Referring to the movements of the coins, he said that he
had taken a coin from his own pocket and placed it on the ground him·
self, yet that this coin had indulged in the same freaks as the other
coins. His wife ventured to suggest that the juggler had taken the coin
and placed it on the ground, but the officer was emphatic in repeating
his statement, and appealed to me for confirmation. He was, however,
mistaken. I had watched the transaction with special curiosity, as I
knew what was necessary for the performance of the trick. The officer
had apparently intended to place the coin upon the ground himself, but
as he was doing so, the juggler leant slightly forward, dexterously and
in a most unobtrusive manner received the coin from the fingers of the
officer as the latter was stooping down, and laid it close to the others.
If the jugglerhad not thus taken the coin, but had allowed the officer
Digitized by Google
Oct.,I886.] JO'Urrwl of Soci£ty for Psychical Research. 4113
himself to place it on the ground, the trick, as actually performed, would
have been frustrated.
Now I think it highly improbable that the movement of the juggler
entirely escaped the perception of the officer-highly improbable, that
is to say, that the officer was absolutely unaware of the juggler's action
at the moment of its happening; but I suppose that although
an impression was made upon his consciousness, it was so slight
as to be speedily effaced by the officer's imagination of himself as stoop-
ing and placing the coin upon the ground. The officer, I may say, had
obtained no insight into the modUl operandi of the trick, and his
fundamental misrepresentation of the only patent occurrence that might
have given him a clue to its performance debarred him completely from
afterwards, in reflection, arriving at any explanation.
Now I hope to succeed in showing that it is the universal mental
weakness of which the above incident is an illustration, that forms one
of the main sources of error in the reports of Eglinton's slate-writing.
There are of course other sources of error, notably the distraction of
the sitter's attention to such an extent that he is not aware at all of
certain actions performed by the "medium"; but the source of error
which I now desire in particular to press upon the reader's notice is
the perishability, the exceeding transience, the fading feflbleness, the
evanescence beyond recall, of certainimpressions which nevertheless did
-enter the domain of consciousness, and did in their due place form part
of the stream of impetuous waking thought.
It is, moreover, not simply and merely that many events, which did
-obtain at the sitting some share of perception, thus lapse completely
from the realm of ordinary recollection. The consequence may
indeed be that we meet with a blank or a chaos in traversing the
particular field of remembrance from which the events have lapsed, but
this will often be filled by some conjectured events which rapidly be-
.come attached to the adjacent parts, and form, in conjunction with them,
a consolidated but fallacious fragment in memory; on the other hand,
the consequence may be that the edges of the lacUnal close up-eventa
originally separated by a considerable interval are now rememlnrtd
"lividly in immediate juxtaposition, and there is no trace of the
piecing.
Another source of error which bears a kinship to this depends
partly upon the absence of a. prolonged carefulness in writing out the
original record of the sitting. Events which occurred during the
sitting, which made a comparatively deep impression, which have not,
at the t.ime of recording, sunk beyond the possibility of recall, never-
theless do not appear in the report, because they were temporarily
.forgotten; and having been thus omitted, the temporary forgetfulness
Digitized by Google
414 JQU1~al 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resea'1'C/t. [Oct.,lSSG.
is likely to become permanent, owing to the very coherence given tc>
the defectiveaocount by the recording.
Less than a month ago I spent many hours recalling and writing
notes of a slate-writing seance. The task: occupied me sODie Idx or
seven continuous hours on each of the two days following the evening
of the _nce. Tn.king the first page of my JIl88., I find, among what.
are plainly interpolations* a.fter the page was originally completed, an.
exceedingly noteworthy passage.
I had held the slate against the table instantaneously after the-
"conjurer" had placed it in position; the slate was shortly afterwards.
withdrawn, and the cha.lk which had been placed upon it was found
crushed. The chalk marks were cleaned off. A second time I held
it similarly, and on withdrawal a dash was found on the slate, which
was again cleaned. After noting these and other directly connected.
events I "had originally written, placing the occurrence before the pro-
duction of writing: "He then turned the slate over, and put the nib-
of chalk on, and a.sked me to hold." My a.lteration of this reads :
"After holding some time, he asked me to put my holding hand upon
his other holding B.'s, 80 as to complete Cil"Cuit. With this exception
I heM the slate in each case against the table. Later, he asked me to-
hold again." I had nearly omitted this most important exceptional
circumstance here described, correctly described-as I have since-
learnt from the" conjurer." I may further notice that it occurred.
before the first writing was obtained, as I rightly placed it. The-
"conjurer" did turn the slate over a.s I originally wrote, on three sub-
sequent occasions during the sitting, but he did not do so previous to-
the appearance of the first writing. My temporary forgetfulness thus
involved the temporary insertion of a conjectured event. Or, since the-
event thus inserted did actually occur later in the sitting, the insertion
of it in the wrong place may be regarded as an illustration of the ten-
dency to transposition, to which Mr. Lewis has also drawn attention
(Journal for August, p. 362), in referring to the difficulty of recalling
in their proper order such events as those in question j it is almost.
impossible to avoid confusing the sequence if the events are crowded,
even if they appeared at the time of their occurrence to be of special
importance.
In addition to the mistakes which thus originate from the lapsing
• I recollect, as I think, my surprise at finding, while I was engaged in.
making the record, that I had 80 nearly forgotten at the moment such an im-
portant incident as that referred to in the interpolation; but apart from this,
the paasage was undoubtedly written afterwards, as appears from its position,
&c. I may add that I had probably spent an hour or two in originally noting-
&be fin~ page.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1886.] Jou1-nal of Society lor Psychical Resea1'Ch. 415
of certain events beyond recollection, there is the further mistake to
which we are liable, of unwittingly inserting events between others
which occurred in immediate sequence. This of course also depends
upon the weakness of memory; the events as they originally occurred
may have acquired only a loose coherence in consciousness, so that
an event afterwards imagined usurps easily 80 place in the series and
becomes fixed by recording and repetition.
I make no excuse for reminding the reader of these facts concerning
the treachery of memory, because they seem to me to have been almost
entirely overlooked by the antagonists of Mrs. Sidgwick's view. It is
impossible to estimate rightly the value of the reports in the Journal
for June without giving due weight to the influence of such illusions as
I have briefly specified,-without inquiring in detail, after experimental
knowledge, how far these reports may be rendered untrustworthy by the
faults of simple omission, of substitution, of transfiguration, and of
complete interpolation.
Suppose that we are considering the t&stimony of 80 witness to his
own separate and complete examination of 80 slate immediately previous
to the apparent production of writing. Then, according to what I
have been saying, we have-with a perfectly bona fide witness-four
possibilities to consider besides the one that his impression is correct.
It may actually be that no examination at all was made by the witness;
it may be that, although made, the examination was not made in the
perfect manner now described; it may be that the examination, although
faultless and made at the sitting, was not made on the occasion alleged ;
or it may be that although the examination was made as described,
and on the occasion alleged, events, perhaps unnoticed or regarded by
the witness as insignificant, intervened between the examination and
the apparent production of the writing.
I repeat that the deficiency which I am emphasising here concerns
primarily the trustworthiness of memory, wnder circul1",tancu-be it
remembered---{)j exceptional diJIiculty. But I am aware that mere
general statements will neither produce conviction nor raise definite
issues, and I therefore proceed to suggest, by somewhat detailed
comments, how much the reports printed in the Journal for June must
be inaccurate if we refuse to regard them as exhibiting satisfactory
proof of the production of "occult" slate-writing.
I shall endeavour, as to the cases with which I deal, to point out
how the trick may have been perfonned. I do not affinn dogmatically
that the trick was actually perfonned in each case in the manner I
may suggest. No doubt my suppositions would in many instances
prove to be erroneous, had we any means of testing them by the real
occurrences. But even if in no single instance could my detailed
gitized by (.oogI
416 JO'It1'nal of Socuty for PsychicaZ &search. [Oct., 1886.
hypotheses be justified, it would in no way affect the object which I
have in view; this not being to show how Eglinton performed the trick
in each particular case, but being to show how far I think each report
may fail of being a full and accurate description of the sitting. I
propose to construct hypotheses as to what actually occurred, supposing
Eglinton to be a conjurer, so that we may estimate the amount of
distortion in the reports, owing chieJly to mal-observation and
illusions of memory on the part of the witnesses. The question will
then be, not whether the witnesses made the very identical mistakes
which I attribute to them hypothetically, but whether they made
mistakes of the same character and quantity as these,-and this
without impugning either their sanity or their veracity. Further, since
we are not in a position to ascertain with any approach to certainty
what mistakes the witnesses did make, and since the majority of the
witnesses are doubtless unaware of the untrustworthiness of ordinary
human perception and memory under eM peculiar circum.ttanca
in1XJlved, and will be unwilling to admit the possibility of the more
senous lapses which I shall attribute to them, we shall be compelled to
fall back upon the inquiry :-How much distortion should we find in
the reports of similar witnesses of analogous performances1 By similar
witnesses I mean-persons whose general intelligence, mental attitude,
emotional state, knowledge of conjuring, powers of obsen-ation and
retentiveness, &c.-so far as we can judge of these-entitle them to be
placed on the same level as the writers of the reports printed in the
Journal for June; and by analogous performances I mean-
unquestionably oonjuring performances which resemble in their main
aspects those which I suppose to have occurred at the sittings with
Eglinton described in those reports.
This inquiry, as it seems to me, can receive a complete answer
only after a somewhat complete experimental investigation, in the way
of which, however, there are certain obstacles, to whieh I have referred
in the early part of this paper. But I think we may insist that the
reliability of the testimony offered, under tIle circumstance. in1X1lwd,
cannot justifiably be auumed as adequate to prove the genuineness of
" occult" slate-writing-without some such investigation as I suggest.
Such an assumption is illegitimate in the face of the ordinary perform-
ances of conjurers, whose modi operandi are undetected by the witnesses
of the tricks; and I have not learnt that any attempt has been made,
by those who think so highly of the reports in the Journal for June, or
other similar reports, to compare the actual occurrences at conjuring
performances with the misdescriptions given of them by the uninitiated,
for the purpose of reaching a just conclusion as to the evidential value
of the reports in question.
Digitized by Google
Oet.,l886.] JO'Ur'1Ull of Society fO'l' Psychical Resea1"Ch. 417
From these considerations let us now pass to the examination of
the reports in detail, and in the first place let us turn our attention
to any obvious indications, in the reports themselves, of the faults which
I have specified. We may expect to find these, if anywhere, by a
comparison of accounts by different persons of the same sitting. There
are unfortunately only two instances in the whole series of
reports where this comparison is possible. These are the reports of
Mr. Smith and Mr. Murray Templeton, pp. 299-303 (Jounaal for
June), and the reports of MiBB Symons and Mr. Wedgwood,
pp. 310-311.
Mr. Templeton begins his report by saying:
As Mr. Smith will probably provide a detailed account of this our laa~
sitting with Mr. Eglinton, I shall do no more than record what I consider to
be the main factors in the conditions and succeeding results.
The various omiBBions, therefore, of events which we find mentioned
in Mr. Smith's report cannot be urged as instances of mal-observation or
lapse of memory on the part of Mr. Templeton, even supposing that
they were correctly recounted by Mr. Smith. It is otherwise however
where Mr. Templetou mentions events which are either described
differently, or not described at all, by Mr. Smith. Thus Mr. Templeton
writes :
Then three di1rerently-coloured morsels of crayon having been placed on
the alate, and the slate pressed against the table, Mr. Eglinton asked
Mia P--, which crayon she would choose to have used in the writing of
any number she might name. She fixed on the number 9 to be written in
green, I desired 99 in yellow, and Mr. Smith 12 in red. The numbers and
colours were arranged while Mr. Eglinton held the alate against the table ;
and no change in the position of the slate or his hand took place till the
writing was heanl, and we found the numbers in their respective colours
correctly written out.
:Mr. Smith writes:
Three small pieces of crayon-green, yellow, and red-were placed upon a
elate together; Mias P--osked that the figure 9 might be written in
green, Mr. Templeton proposed that 99 should be produced in yellow, and I
voted for the figures 12 in red. The slato was then placed beneath the table-
hp, and writing was BOOn to be heard.
It is of course impossible to determine whether Mr. Templeton is
right in affirming that the slate was already held against the table in
position bifore the numbers and coloure were chosen by the sitters, or
Mr. Smith right in describing the slate's haVing been placed under the
table after they were chosen. Mr. Templeton does not give any
estimate of the time which elapsed after the slate was held under the
table before it was withdrawn with the numbers written upon it. Mr.
Digitized by Google
418 JQ'/.w'1I.al of Society for PsyclLical Raea1'Ch. [Oct., 1886-
Smith's estimate is indefinite; "writing was soon to be heard "; he
uses a similar expression in connection with the next incident.
described in the same report: "soon we heard," and in Mr. Templeton's.
report this appears as "probably 10 minutes." Hence, without.
assuming any error on Mr. Smith's part, we may suppose that the slate
was held under the table 10 minutes by Eglinton, and that in that.
interval he found the opportunity, or opportunities, of writing the
numbers. No reliance can be placed on Mr. Templeton's statement.
concerning no change in the position of the slaw, &c., when we
remember the difficulties both of continuous observation and of accurate
recollection.
In the next incident (the tracing, on a "child's outline drawing-
slate," of part of a leg) the slate, according to Mr. Templeton, was under
the table "probably 10 minutes," and then, after the" soft scratching n
sound, "part of a leg had been accurately copied, we found," or, as Mr.
Smith writes: "a portion of the leg bad been roughly but correctly
traced." This does not seem to have been a feat very difficult of accom-
plishment. It would appear from Mr. Smith's account that they had
requested" the leg" to be traced, and part only was traced, an opera-
tion which surely would occupy but a very short time, not more than
a few seconds; and Mr. Templeton scarcely Adds to the value of his
testimony by his later confident statement (JounwU for July, p. 360):
I know very exactly how long it would take an ordinary draughtsman to
make IUch a copy, and what amount of direct vision would be required to see
to trace, which combination of time and vision Mr. Eglinton never attained.
The accounts of the next incident described by Mr. Templeton are
instructive. Mr. Smith wntes :
We now expreued our desire to get something written which could be
regarded as outside the knowledge of any of us_uch as a certain word on a
given line of a chosen page of a book ; and we proposed thatthe "controls"
ahould be asked if luch an experiment would be likely to IUcceed.
From which the reader will hardly infer that the test was proposed
by Eglinton himself. Yet Mr. Templeton writes:
Next the final and mOlt crucial test was proposed by Mr. Eglinton. It.
had been luggested to his own mind by a former test of my own, &c.
It may often happen that the recorder describes an experiment as
suggested by himself when it was either suggested or "led up to" by
Eglinton. Thus, Mr. Templeton, in describing the choice of the page
and line, says:-
AI the theory of the medium'l mesmeric influence over the sitters had
been more than once put before me as a not impossible explanation I lug-
gested we Ihould fix the line by tho number of crayons in a box before U.
Digitized by Google
Oct.,l886.] Jou1-nal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resect1'ch. 419-
which gave us the 18th line; and in a similar way, from a separate heap'
of Blate pencils, we obtained the number 9 for page.
This suggestion may have been led up to by Eglinton; and it is.
important to observe the difference between this account and Mr.
Smith's, who says:
This point Mr. Templeton and I decided by each taking a few crayons
and pencils from the table by chance, and counting them; Mr. Templeton
bad pouessed himself of 18 pieces of crayon, and I had seized 9-
pieces of pencil, we found on counting them ; we therefore decided that thO'
.. controls II should be asked to write the llUt tw,.d of liue 18 on page
9 of the book.
Now if llr. Templeton's account is correct, Mr. Smith's is certainly
incorrect. Taking the number of crayons in a box is a very different·
thing from taking a few crayons from the table by chance. ' The
number of crayons in the box might well have been arranged by
Eglinton. Similarly the number of "pieces of pencil" may have been
arranged by Eglinton. Nothing is said about how the choice of the-
leut ulord was made; this might have been suggested by Eglinton, wh()
might have previously ascertained that the last word of line 18 of page-
9 of the book decided upon was" bunhodesed JJ (misspelling it in the
reproduction), in the case that the chooser of a book might take the
nd-covered one Eglinton desired~not such an improbable case as some;
of my readers may suppose; and he may have already written, during
the sitting, the words afterwards found, so that the message may ha.ve
been on the slate at the time when the slate and book together were
placed under the table. Of course I do not consider that the
possibility is excluded that Eglinton actually looked at the book under'
the table and found the word required and then wrote the message, as.
I have no doubt he has done on other occasions; I cannot place any
reliance upon the confidence of the sitters that he did not do so. Theo
interval was not improbably a considerable one, notwithstanding Mr.
Templeton's phrase-"after some slight waiting"; Mr. Smith notes.
especially, in connection with this incident, after the slate with the book
was placed under the table, " We then commenced conversing JJ; and
the very form of his after-statement :
-it is easy for us to say with confidence that all his movements were 8()0
carefully watched ~at the slightest attempt on his part to open the book, or
even to touch it, would have been detected almost before the attempt was.
made,
suggests that he was not aware of the difficulty of continuous observa-
tion under such circumstances. But while Eglinton may have looked
up the word required, under the table, I mention the "forcing" method
as well, in view of the discrepancies between the two accounts, and
Digitized by Google
420 Journal of Society for PsyclLical Researck. [Oct.,I886.
particularly of a serious omission on the part of Mr. Smith, to which I
now draw attention. He says :-
I then went to the bookshelf, took a book at haphazard, without of
.(lOUl'lle looking at the title, retumod to my _t, placed the book upon the
.chair, and at upon it whilat we were arranging the page, line and word to
be uked for.
* * * * * * * *
Of COUl'lle, the test would have greater value 81 such had we been able to
l1se a book which we could be certain he had never read ; but if thia point
tells against the result, the fact that by a happy chance my selection cauaed
a Hungarian book of poema to be used should surely counterbalance thia
evidential 1Iaw to a great extent, and reduce the Chancel of hia having
Inemoriaed the position of every word in it to a minimum. That I wu not
Jorced to take thia special book from its being in a particularly handy and
prominent position, and that page 9 and line 18 were not "led up to .. by
Mr. Eglinton is obvioua-from the fact that I made my selection without
looking at the boob ; and that the page and line were determined by chanCt!y
then and there, as I have deacribed.
Now it is clear, from Mr. Templeton's account, that Mr. Smith, at
the time of writing this report, had entirely jorgoUm an incident
which he ought to have regarded as of the utmost importance. Mr.
Templeton says :-
On taking a book Mr. Smith uked Mr. Eglinton if he knew what it was.
Mr. Eglinton answered "Yes," and that as it was a rather trashy novel it
might be better to choose another. Mr. Smith then took a small red-covered
book from the opposite shelf, and thia Mr. Eglinton said he did not recognise.
Yet Mr. Smith builds up an express argument which depends
~hiefly on two circumstances-that the page and the line were
determined by chance, which is by no means certain, and that the
selection from the book was entirely at haphazard, which is also by no
means certain, since the first book chosen was rejected by Eglinton,
and the phrases-" without looking at the books " and" without looking
at the title"_re not specific enough and not reliable enough, in view of
the omitted incident, to warrant us in saying that Mr. Smith's atten-
tion was not caught by the red-covered book. Not merely is there no
allusion whatever in Mr. Smith's report to this rejection of the first
book, but his argument forbids the supposition that he had any
recollection of it when he wrote his report. Suppose that we had not
received Mr. Templeton's report of the sitting, and that I had suggested
that Mr. Smith's report was quite unreliable,-that although he de-
scribed himself as taking a book at haphazard, returning to his seat,dro.,
he had probably forgotten to mention that he had first taken another
book and had asked Eglinton if he knew it, that Eglinton had replied
in the affirmative, saying that he knew the books on that set of shelves.
and that Mr. Smith had better take a book from the opposite aide,-
Digitized by Google
Oct.. 1886.] Jou1"1ld 01 Society 1m' Psychical Research. 421
upon which :Mr. Smith had turned to the opposite shelf and had taken
the first book that struck him, which "happened" to be the IIDl&ll red-
covered book desiderated by Eglinton. I think it not unlikely that if
I had made such a suggestion, it would have been scouted &8 absurd by
many persons, who would reject as intolerable my &88umption that a.
witness of Mr. Smith's intelligence and &cuteness could have so com-
pletely omitted all reference to such an incident, and could have used
an argument which strictly excludes its occurrence.
Am I not justi1led in &88uming. then, that a witness may forget
that the locked sla.te, for example, W&8 taken under the table, or that
another illate W&8 not examined on some particular occasion, or that some
other incident which might be of special importance originally formed
part of a series of events, the description of which, with the incident.
omitted, now runs on unbrokenly in the report without the least.
shadowy hint that such an incident occurred1
I must here again remind the reader that I do not affirm that the
trick, in the incident we have just considered, was arranged in its details.
beforehand. But whereas, dealing with Mr. Smith's report alone, I
should suggest that Eglinton used opportunities of finding the word
and writing on the slate while the slate and book were under the table,.
I should also suggest, dealing with Mr. Templeton's report, that Eglin-
ton had previously arranged most of the details, succeeded partially in
" forcing" the book, and completely in "leading up to" the seem-
ingly chance choice of the page, cltc. No capable conjurer familiar-
with the possibilities of "forcing" would attribute any value to the
•• book-test" in this particular instance, in the light of the statements
made by Mr. Templeton, in relation to which I may quote a passage-
from the article by Mr. Lewis (Joo,mal for August, p. 370): "The
expedient of taking a number of bits of pencil, wax lights, and the
like, though apparently excluding the possibility of pre-a.rrangement,.
is capable of a good deal of 'management' in skilful hands."
I have dealt with this "crucial test" incident at some length
because it furnishes an illustration of what has no doubt frequently
happened in reporting sittings with Eglinton, especially where long
messages have been obtained, whether on a single slate, or on a double
slate, or between two sla.tes. If we were to regard the description, of
the witness &8 reliable, any hypothesis involving previous preparation
on the part of Eglinton might be entirely out of the question; but a
report, as we see, may be marred by the gravest omissions and other
misdescriptions, a knowledge of which might fundamentally change our
explanation of the "manifestations" at the sitting.
Finally, we must bear in mind that in all probability the discre-
pancies, as to important points, between the two reports, would have
Digitized by Google
422 Jou1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1886.
been still more striking had Mr. Templeton set out with the intention
of writing down every detail of the sitting, instead of recording (and
this after three days' interval) only what he considered to be " the
main factors in the conditions and succeeding results."
Let us now turn to the reports of Miss Symons and Mr. Wedgwood,
{pp.310-311). We may first compare the two accounts as to the positions
of the slates during the sitting, I analyse the statements of Miss
Symons as follows :-
(1) The locked slate wu left on the table.
(2) Another alate wu taken by Eglinton below the table.
(3) Not long after ten minutes or a quarter of an hour had elapsed (during
which thore wu no reply whatever), the slate under the table waa with-
,dmwn, and the words "We will try,n were found written upon it.
(4) The locked alate waa held under thetable by Eglinton,and he let it drop
from his hand to the floor. On picking it up he opened it, but no writing had
come. [We are not told how Miss Symons knew that no writing had come.]
(5) The locked alate-pruumably, from the account-waa left on the
table.
(6) Another slate waa held by Eglinton below the table, upon which the
word "Patience" wu almost immediately found.
(7) The locked slate waa opened a second time by Eglinton, and Miss
.Symons satisfied herself "by slightly moving the cards," that there wu then
110 writing 011 either side of the slate.
(8) The locked slate waa never out of the sight of Miss Symons, waa
never removed from the table, and Miss Symons' hand aa well aa Eglinton'.
rested on it till the sound aa of writing waa heard, closelyfollowed by the third
inspection of the alate, when the names of the cards in question were found
,aa required.
Looking for these points in Mr. Wedgwood's account of October
8th, we find that there is no reference of any kind, express or implied,
to (2) and (3); and his description of (6) suggests that while he was
writing his recollections to Mrs. Sidgwick, he had entirely forgotten (2)
and (3), and this, be it observed, although his account was written soon
after the sitting: "I am this moment returned from Mr. Eglinton's."
'The opening of the locked slate-(4) and (7)-is mentioned by Mr.
Wedgwood, but in the poatBcript, from which it would appear either
that he had temporarily forgotten the incidents, or that he had
attributed little significance to them-(probably the former, since in
the main 'part of his account he speaks of the key as having been "all
the time on the table and before him "). Further, Mr. W edgwood's
account--such as it is-of the opening, implies that immediately before
each opening the locked slate was under the table :-" twice in the
course of waiting for the writing, Mr. Eglinton brougltt up the frame
and opened it before us"; he never mentions expressly that it was held
Digitized by Google
Oct.,I886.] Jo'urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 423
llnder the table at all. Miss Symons, it will be noticed, mentions that
the locked slate was held below the table during one interval; but if it
was taken under the table a. seccmd time, as the statement of Mr.
Wedgwood implies, there is a most serious omission in her account. I
think it highly probable that the slate was held under the table during
two separate intervals, the second of these occurring, I suppose,
between (4) and (8), and,-more exactly,-between (6) and (7). This
-supposition is perhaps strengthened by the fact that according to the
report of Miss Symons as it stands, the following incidents formed a
-strangely rapid succession.
a. Eglinton opens the alate.
b. Eglinton holds another sla.te under the table and asks a question, and
"Patience" is the "o.lmost immediate" reply.
c. At this point Eglinton opens the slate again !
I think that this point was determined, in the minu of Miss Symons,
rather by what followed than by what preceded, and that after the
injunction, " Patience" the locked slate was again held under the table
for some time" but that Miss Symons had forgotten this when she wrote
'her report, just as Mr. Smith had forgotten the incident of the rejection
of the first book by Eglinton. But, it may be urged, however justifi-
Jl.ble this emendation may be,-harmonising, moreover, as it does, the
statement of Mr. Wedgwood,-is it not immaterial whether the locked
:slate was held below the table a second time or not, if Miss Symons
inspected it afterwards and found that there was no writing upon it 1
To this I reply in the first place that what is immaterial in one case
may be very material in another, and the taking of a. slate below the
table should in every single instance have been regarded by the writers
of the reports as a most noteworthy* circumstance; and in the second
place that Miss Symons did not take sufficient care to ascertain that
there was then no writing upon it. She says:
I satisfied myself by slightly moving the cards (though, I need hardly say,
-without turning them up) that there was then no writing on either aide of
the slate.
The writing, it appears, was eventually found "under the cards."
The question is, (on the supposition which I have taken that the
locked slate was twice held under the table), did Miss Symons, on the
ooc&sion of the second opening of the slate, move the cards enough to
ascertain truly that the names of the cards were not already written 1
On the contrary, I suppose that sM did not then move tMm at all,
.. See Journal for Angust, pp. 367-8: "To the production of writing on a-
slate simply held by the medium under a. table, I should attach very small im-
llOrta.nce, such production being, I should say, "ith practice, within the reach
of any conjurer," &c., &c.
424 Jo-urrud of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.,1886.
but that she moved them on the occaaion of the first opening of the
slate-number (4) in the analysis p. 422. It is not improbable that in
consequence of the dropping of the slate, the carda were somewhat
displaced, and were arranged by Miss Symons; and I conjecture that
abe afterwarda rigl,tly recollected having moved the carda when the
slate was opened, but wrongly recollected on which occaaion she did so.
This, too, would explain the fact that she does not tell us, with
reference to her inspection on the first opening of the slate, how she-
knew that no writing had come; that being the appropriate place, after
the dropping of the slate on the Hoor, both for her moving of the cards
and for her conviction that nothing had been written.
Again I remind the reader that my explanation is hypothetical.
and that other suppositions might be made. For example, Mias
Symons may be mistaken in her belief that after the second opening of
the slate it remained continuously on the table, in her sight, and
under her hand; it may have remained thus for some time previous to
the BOund as of writing, but it may have been taken below the tabl&
immediately after her last inspection, i.e., between (7) and (8).
then written upon, and then, no BOund as of writing having been heard,
replaced upon the table, and thenceforth closely guarded as she
describes.
But I shall not burden the reader by detailing various suppositions
all of which might be made without, in my opinion, attributing more
inaccuracy to the reports before us than we are warranted in doing by
the defects of perception and memory which must almost inevitably
characterise such reports, notwithstanding the conscientiousness and
care of the witnesses. I may now, ill accordance with my first suppo-
sition, amend the report of Miss Symons in the following way, using
her words as far as possible. The corresponding passage in her report
will be found in the Journal for June, p. 310.
This being BO far satisfactory, Mr. Eglinton next held the locked alate
under the table, but being, I suppose, heavy, he let it drop from his hand to
the floor. On picking it up he opened it, and I satisfied myaelf by slightly
moving the carda (though, I need. hardly say, without turning them up) that
there waa then no writing on either aide of the slate. He then held one of
the smaller alateB again under the table, and oaked whether there waa any
chance of the teat succeeding. .. Patience .. waa the almost immediate reply.
Mr. Eglinton then held the locked alate again under the table, and after an
interval of conversation [during which he found opportunities to look at the
carda and write their names, covering the writing with the cards] replaced it
on the table and opened it a second time, but no writing had come. [But Mias
Symons did not then look under the carda.] From this time up to the moment
when we next heard [a BOund aa of]writing, the slate waa never out of our
sight for an instant, nor waa it once removed from the table; in fact, Mr.
Eglinton's hand and mine rested on it throughout.
gitized by (.oogI
<>ct.,l886.J JOU7'1Ull of SoC'iety for PItlJchical Rellearch. 425
Returning to the statements of Mr. Wedgwood-it is, I think, to
be inferred from his letter (and postscript) of October 8th, that his
impression about the locked slate was that it was taken under the table
for the experiment. This appears in the passage I have already quoted
from the postscript-IC twice in the course of waiting for the writing,
Mr. Eglinton brought up the frame and opened it before us," and in
the passage_IC Mr. Eglinton then put the slates before Miss Symons,
who sat next him "-when taken in conjunction with the last sentence
of his letter of October 15th, 0. sentence which seems intended to correct
a fonner impression that the locked slate was under the table when the
"sound of writing" came. If this interpretation is right, there is a
further implication in Mr. Wedgwood's first letter that the locked slate
was taken a second time below the table as I have supposed, m., in
the statement: "The answer came up, 'Patience,' so we went on and
presently heard the sound of writing." If Mr. Wedgwood, when he first
wrote, thought that the" sound of writing" came when the slate was
below the table, the we went on would apparently mean that Eglinton
held the locked slate under the table again at the stage where I have
inserted the occurrence in the report of Miss Symons.
It may be regarded as a needless task to consider at greater length
these accounts of Mr. Wedgwood, where the most important events
are mentioned so vaguely, or left to be gathered from implications only.
It is obvious, that where-s in watching a conjurer's perfonnance-
the mOst careful and continuous scrutiny, combined, I should perhaps
add, with keen and quick vision, is required-I do not say for
«etection of the trick, but-for merely apprebending the apparently
insignificant yet possibly all-essential details; and where a most
intense and prolonged concentration of memory is demanded for the due
recollection of the events which were actually observed; it is obvious,
I say, that where these are primary requisites for the production of 0..
report that shall represent even approximately what happened at the
sitting, a report by Mr. Wedgwood must be in a very higb degree
unreliable. That Mr. Wedgwood's accounts, primilfacie, can have but
little evidential value, may be further shown from certain otber state-
ments of bis on p. 311. Thus he writes:
There wo.s no po88ible room for sleight of hand, aa the frame wo.s locked
all the while that it waa in Eglinton's hands,
from which it seems that Mr. Wedgwood trusts to the locking of
Eglinton's own slate! And although he stated on October 8th that
Eglinton opened the locked slate twice, and although be afterwards
signed tbe account written by Miss Symons in whicb sbe also described
two openings of the slate by Eglinton, he writes,-later still, apparently,
-on October 15th:
2 B
Digitized by Google
426 J01wnal of Society fm' Psychical, Be8ea1-cTt. [Oct.,I886.
I said that Mr. Eglinton opened the frame twice in the COUl'8e of the
Bitting to see whether anything was writ.ten, but on seeing Miss Symons'
account and talking the matter over with Mr. Eglinton, I am satiafi.ed that it
was only once.
Yet it ca.nnot be denied that Mr. Wedgwood is a most conscientious.
witness, and has endeavoured to make his report as accurate as
possible.
Not less instructive than a comparison of independent accounts
given by different observers of the same sitting, might be a comparison
of (as far as possible) independent accounts given by the BalM
observer, especially if a considerable interval has elapsed between his
two accounts. A partial instance of this is now before us in the
reports of Mr. S. J. Davey, who sent different accounts of the same
sittings to Light,. all of these are printed in the present number of the
Journal (pp. 431-438).
Mrs. Brietzcke, by her recent letters to the Journal, also offers one
or two points for comparison.
The great lack of detail in Mr. Davey's account quoted from Light
of July 12th, 1884, is in itself enough to show that he was then
entirely unaware of the difficulties to be surmounted before either him-
self or his readers could form a truejudgment of what actually occurred
at the sitting. He does not indeed introduce so much manifut con·
fusion into his account as we find in Mrs. Brietzcke's-and simply
because his confusion is not so patent the reader of his account is the more
likely to receive an erroneous impression-but the confusion in both
instances is of the same nature, and is due primarily to the omission
of facts which can hardly be described as absent from the minds of the
writers even while their reports were being written.
Mr. Davey says: "I give the conditions under which we obtained
the messages," and he then proceeds-well, to not give them. The
reader may infer from his first statement about the slates that all the
messages appeared on the two which he himself had taken i but that.
other slates were used would be suggutw, to a careful student of his
account, by the expressi0I?-: "I put a crumb of pencil on the slate and
then put another slate over that." This may be compared with Mrs.
Brietzcke's expressions * in her report (p. 293) of her sitting on the
13th June. Several slates were then used which, apparently, were
not taken by Mrs. Brietzcke. Had her report been written in greater
detail, we should no doubt have been explicitly told that one or more
of these other slates belonged to Eglinton. Similarly in )[rs.
Brietzcke's report of her sitting on July 19th. She there writes :
We were late lUI I went t-o Hammond's in the Edgware-road and bought
• See a.lso the Journal for August, p. 372.
Digitized by Google
Oc:t.,l886.) Journal of Society for Psyclticnl Research. 427
tAree netDaatu. We found Mr. Eglinton waiting for us, and we immediately
.. at .. (the alatea having been cleaned) in the following positions :
The reader of this naturally infers that the slates thus" cleaned "
were Mrs. Brietzcke's. It seems at any rate clear that Mrs.
Bml%Cke drew this inference on reading her report in the Journal for
June, and being certain that her slates had remained uncleaned, she
suggested, as I understand, that the apparently erroneous statement
W&8 due to the Editor of the Jourrwl. Finding however that the
statement was undoubtedly her own, she concludes, as I presume, that
she must have meant to so.y that" Mr. Eglinton's slates were cleaned."
I infer from this that some of Eglinton's slates were in use at her
sitting of July 19th in addition to his locked slate, which is the only
sIate of Eglinton's explicitly mentioned by her in her report. I should
probably have inferred that Eglinton's slates were used to some extent
at the sitting in question, as thirteen writings were obtained, and
moreover Mrs. Brietzcke herself wrote upon a slate on three separate
occasions, and her companion, Miss L., on.two separate occasions. The
locked sJate was written upon only once, 80 that there remain 17
writings to be accounted for,-on (probably) ordinary slates. Still, all
these writings may have been, and still may be, on Mrs. Brietzcke's
own slates, as I do not find that more than three slates are described
&8 in use at the sitting at one and the same time. And perhaps Mrs.
Brietz&cke's slates, which apparently are still "uncleaned," contain
twelve "occult" writings; she tells us in the Journal for August
(p. 380) that she had "almost all the writing done on purpoBe" on her
three new unckaned slates, and that as she "wanted these particular
slates used, they were placed and replaced."
But although Mrs. Brietzcke's later communications throw some
light upon her original reports as regards the slates used, they are more
interesting from an allusion to another matter. In her report of July
19th (pp. 293-4), among the writings which she requested to be
produced were the word cat and the figure~. There is absolutely
nothing in the report to suggest that these requests were not
spontaneous, that they did not suddenly occur to Mrs. Brietzcke with-
out having any connection with previous incidents in which Eglinton
had been concerned. But what do we learn from Mrs. Brietzcke's
letter to the Journal for August' That Professor Barrett had asked
for cat and ~ to be written-at the sitting of July 15th1-and "had
been refused." Mrs. Brietzcke desired to succeed where Professor
Barrett had failed, desired to get the words which Professor Barrett
" had been refused" ; and it is not unlikely that she expressed her
desire to Eglinton. Plainly, this information which Mrs. Brietzcke
has given us in her letter Affords a new aspect altogether to the incident
2 B 2
428 Jou1'nal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Oct.,l886.
in which these writings accrued, and Mrs. Brietzcke did not
appreciate its significance when she wrote her report. It is indeed &
serious omission, though perhaps less serious than the one we found in
Mr. Smith's report. We may suppose that the word cat was already upon
the slate, when the slates were placed, finally, in position; and we may
suppose also that the figure .4 was already upon the slate when it was
placed in positioQ.
In relation to this incident I may remark that there is absolutely
no reference to any specific examination of a slate in the whole of Mrs.
Brietzcke's reports. In two of her reports she mentions, generally, the
preliminary cleaning of the slates, without stating who cleaned them or
to whom they belonged. In another instance, an ordinary slate is
spoken of simply as " clean" (p. 295) in a way which indicates clearly
enough that no complete specific examination of it was made by Mrs.
Brietzcke. After these considerations I think we may say that the
writing of cat and.4 can scarcely have occasioned Eglinton any serious
difficulty. One of the warnings we may draw from our increased know-
ledge of the incident is the danger of supposing hastily, in other cases,
that Eglinton was precluded from writing an answer beforehand (.lwrlly
beforehand and during the sitting, as well as previous to the sitting) to
a given request; inasmuch as he may have been quite aware what the
re~uest would be, though no indication of this is given by the witness.
Let us now tum again to Mr. Davey's accounts, bearing in mind
what we have learnt from Mrs. Brietzcke. And we may first consider,
independently and briefly, those published in Light. In these accounts
Mr. Davey, like Mrs. Brietzcke, whose reports they curiously resemble
as regards both positive statements and omissions of details, describes
no specific examination of a slate other than that implied in the one
specific cleaning which he mentions. Moreover, as we find also in Mrs.
Brietzcke's reports, he seems, notwithstanding his precaution of the
inked pencil grains, to have taken"for granted "that the writing, as a
matter of course, take. place wl~n 1M .ound of writing is heard. To
the mind of an expert in conjuring the assumption should rather be
the other way." (JOtWf'I,al for August, p. 367.) Hence Mr. Davey's
statement in his first account, that" the idea of trickery or juggling in
slate-writing communication is quite out of the question," must have been
the outcome of incompetence for the inquiry; and he unintentionlly
admits as much by grounding his assertion on the study-not of con·
juring-but of "psychological subjects," by which he meant (as appears
from an earlier passage of his communication to Light) investigations
such as those made by "Crookes, Wallace, and Varley," and others.
I have already drawn attention to an indication that other slates
were used in addition to the two Mr. Davey himself procured, and
Digitized by Google
Oct.,l886.] Jourrwl 0/ SocUty /01' Psychical Reseal'Ch. 429
which, he says, "did not leave my possession during the seance." This
statement cannot be accepted as meaning more than that the slates
were, as he thought, within his perception during the seance, so that
they could not, in his opinion, have been written upon surreptitiously
by Eglinton; and we know, were it only from the account given by Mr.
F. Podmore at the general meetingon July 5th (see JOurnal for July,
pp. 342-3) that Buch a statement cannot be trusted. He continues:
"At first we obtained messages by simply putting a piece of slate-
pencil on one slate, and holding the slate on the table." "On the table"
is no doubt a slip or a misprint for" under the table." The conditions
of the holding, the modes of taking and withdrawal and re-insertion
of the slate, are none of them specified. As concerns the long message,
there is no reference to any examination of the slates beforehand, and
were we compelled to suppose--as we are not-that Mr. Davey actually
did take the slates himself, as he describes, the message may have
already been on one of the slates. I think, however, that Mr. Davey
did not take the initiative to such an extent as he imagined, either in
this instance, or in others of which he gives an account.
I suppose - as one of several perhaps equally satisfactory
suppositions, all of which I should regard as not infringing the
limitations which I have imposed on my hypotheses-that at least
three of Eglinton's slates were upon the table, and that two of these
were originally in use for this experiment. Mr. Davey may have
examined both of these and placed them together himself, and his own
hand as well as Eglinton's may have held them together; but after a
short time Eglinton removed the upper slate and placed it on the table,
apparently to see if any writing had come; possibly he lifted the crumb
of pencil, if it was unworn, and substituted for it, near the corner of
one of the two slates, a worn piece; over this slate he then placed the
third slate (on the under surface of which the message was already
written); then lifting and turning the slates together he asked Mr.
Davey to join again in holding them and to make his request. The
illusive sound as of writing could have easily been prodtl.ced in
various ways; the crumb of pencil may have been found near the
termination of the message, and Mr. Davey may have accepted without
hesitation the suggestion of Eglinton that it was " left at the very end
of the flourish of the signature." As for his question whether he should
" ever become a· medium," it was probably suggested or led up to by
Eglinton. He seems further to have regarded the communication as a
test because it referred to the" seizures" in his own family circle; yet
he had probably mentioned these at the interview which he had with
Eglinton on the occasion (or occasions) of which he speaks prior to the
day of the sitting,-and afterwards forgot that he had done so, or
accepted Eglinton's statement to the contrary.
gitized by (.oogI
430 Jotwnal of Society /01' PsyclticCU RuearcIL. [Oct., 1886.
Turning to his second account taken from Light, we find that Mr.
Davey expressly refrains from giving "minute details"; and it is just
the absence of " minute details" that makes BO many reports
e\'identially valueless. Thus it is obvious that no importance can be
attached to the statement that answers were obtained to "questions,
often beyond the knowledge of the medium" unless we know what the
questions and answers were. In the experiments with alternate colours
of crayon and the previously inked pencil the slates were probably
taken under the table; M.r. Davey does not mention what became of
them. I do not know on what date Mr. Davey wrote his account (the
sitting was on October 9th, and the date of publication in Light was
October 25th), but even if it was immediately after the sitting, we
cannot rely on his statement that after his request for" the intelligences
to write,"-"they immediately did BO." There may have been a
considerable interval between his request and the BOund as of writing.
Or he may have made the request more than once, and it may have
been immediately after he repeated the request that the BOund &8 of
writing was heard. His meagre account of the messages on Eglinton's
own locked slate requires no special comment except that, like Mr.
Wedgwood, he seems; to have trusted the locking. The case is
otherwise, however, with his description of the taking of the large
slate upon which the long message was afterwards found. I suppose that
the message had been previously prepared by Eglinton, and the request
for a lengthy message, "partly in Greek," suggested by him to Mr.
Davey. We found in Mrs. Brietzcke's case that certain requests were
not spontaneous, though she had omitted from her reports all reference
to the circumstances which induced her to make them. Similarly, if
we could listen to the conversation-possibly one of the "minute
details" which Mr. Davey expressly refraiIied from giving-which took
place on this sitting of October 9th, we should very likely not be surprised
either at Mr. Davey's request or at its being so readily complied with.
I have little doubt that it was Eglinton who took the slate, which
was either not then cleaned at all, or else on one side only by Eglinton
himself, that Eglinton placed it under the table, and that then for the
first time Mr. Davey-at the request of Eglinton-assisted in holding
it there. The initial "taking" and the careful "cleaning" described in
his account were incidents of Mr. Davey's imagination (as regards at
least that particular slate).
At the so.me time, I have no doubt that the accounts were written
in perfect good faith, and I need not point out in detail how the errors
which he made are exemplifications of the tendencies which I have
described in the first part of my paper.
(To be continued.)
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1886.] Journal oj Soc-wty jor Psyckwal Resea.,,·ch. 431
MR. EGLINTON
The three reports which follow, by l\1r. S. J. Davey, Associate of the
.8ociety, were sent to Mr. Hughes, the Secretary of the Committee for
Physical Phenomena, in 1884. They were, however, mislaid, until Mr.
Hughes, who was under the impression that he had sent them to Mr.
Gurney, found them among his papers at the end of June, 1886. We
have since obtained permission to print them. Mr. Davey, however.
wishes it to be understood that he now regards the reports as of no value
whatever for the purpose of proving that the slate-writing "phenomena "
which occurred were produced by other than ordinary human agency.
He further informs us that the reports were drawn up from notes made
within a few days after each sitting respectively. They were all written,
he thinks, in October or November, 1884, and were written inde-
pendently of the reports of the same sittings which he sent to Light,
and which we here subjoin for the convenience of our readers.
SEANCE No. 1.
On June 3Oth,l8M, I went with my friend Mr. Munro to Bee Wm.
Eglinton, of 12, Old Quebec-street.
I was extremely sceptical of the phenomena said to occur in hiB presence,
and I determined if pouible to put the matter to the best tests I could
-devise.
We bought four slates all of one uniform size, viz., 9i x 7! inches.
We sat in the positions the following diagram will show:
A
!
...;1
ai
-----""""""ft:¥!"-
Window.
:Medium
Table•
:Mr. :M.
Cunalned
Doo~
I!::
2'
I grasped the medium's right hand with my left hand, and my friend held
my right hand in his left, whilst with his disengaged left hand the medium
Digitized by Google
4!J2 JO'U)'nal of Society for Psychical Resem'Ch. [Oct.,I886.
supported one of our slates against the flap of the table in the following
manner. [Illustrated by a diagram.]
We were of COU1'lle moat careful in examining the table, and we could find
nothing unusual in its construction.
Having asked a simple qutlBtion, and having placed a small grain of pencil
between the slate and the table, in the COU1'lle of BOme 10 minutes we heard
the sound of writing, the same continued for about 20 seconds, and then
stopped, and three taps were distinctly audible.
On nlmoving the slate, I found a short and legible reply in a peculiar
handwriting, the writer styling himself by the name of JOEY.
I was, however, by'no means satisfied, and I requested permission to be
allowed to hold the slate with my own hand against the table. The medium
at once assented to this request, and the circle was formed by my friend
joining hands with Mr. Eglinton whilst I, having one hand thereby disen-
gaged, supported the Blabe against the table.
In this manner we likewise obtained writing in answer to our questions.
After we had sat for about three-quarters of an hour the writing came
with greater rapidity, and I placed various coloured chalks between the slates
and obtained the Writing in the same eolour as the chalks.
During the movement of the pencil, I used my best: endeavours to notice
any mOl"ement of the medium's hand, and entirely failed to detect anything.
• After all our slates had been written upon, a message couched in the
following worda was received in the same peculiar handwriting: "Try the
medium's slates."
Although I was convinced that what I had witnessed was by no means
ordinary trickery, I felt suspicious, and therefore determined to use tho
other slates in question after the utmost scrutiny.
The medium produced two ordinary-looking slates, and my friend and
myself examined the~ moat carefully: we failed to find the slightest sign of
anything unusual upon thom. After cleaning them, to preclude the idea of
anything having been prepared upon them, I asked if any word or any sign
could be written by my request, and having agreed that this should be done
we placed the two slates in exact juxtaposition.
They were then held above the table by the medium and myself, and
having placed a small grain of pencil between them, I abruptly asked for the
figure 9 to be written.
Instantly we heard a scratching noise and three sharp taps, and on reo
moving the slates we found a large figure 9 written on the slate.
We then again examined the slates and having selected a grain of pencil
and carefully examined the same we placed it between the slates and asked B
question.
The scratching noise again commenced and continued for upwards of B
minute. We could distinctly hear it travelling over the surface until it
arrived at the end of the slate, and then I was puzzled to hear it again com-
mence as though from the top j it then ceased and the usual three taps were
received, and on removing tho top slate we found a meBIIIIfJe containing 126,
words. It was a complete reply to my query, and the writer signed himself
" Ernest." The hand was a very di1ferent one to that before mentioned and
was of a flowing rapid style.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1886.] Jour-rwl of Society fol' Psychical Rese((j'(·h. 43!r
It wall also written in a remarkable manner, as the signature appeared at
the top comerof the slate as the rough sketch* herewith mayserve to illustrate.
I was careful to notice the grain of pencil was nearly worn out and was at
the last part of the word Ernest, as indicated by a red mark in the sketch.
I then cleaned one of my own slates, and when the medium was out of
the room I wrote the name of a deceased relative upon same. I then put the
alate against the flap of the table in such a manner that it would have been
utterly impossible for Eglinton to have seen what was written.
When he returned I requested an answer to my question. I myself hold
the slate against the table and no one else but myself knew what I had
written. The usual sound of writing commenced. and on removing the slate
I found the following answer: "Your Uncle A (gil'ing the correct Christian
name) ill not present."
Now it was utterly impossible for Mr. Eglinton to have seen what I had
written and he could not therefore have known by any ordina.ry agency that
I had written" A-- T-- brother to my mother," and therefore it must
have been by some occult manner my query was seen and correctly answered.
After a while the answers to our questions became more and more illegible
and we were informed that the power was becoming much weaker. On one
or two occasions we had to request the messages to be written over again, aud
this was always assented to, and after sitting for nearly two hours the
writing suddenly stopped.
William Eglinton appeared much exhausted. [So J. D.]
I certify that the above as stated by Mr. Davey in reference to myself
is correct. H. A. MUNBj>.
ReTTl4rks by Mr. Munro.
[Mr. Munro had apparently intended to make some comments here, but-
did not do so. See hill statement, p. 438].
SEANCE No.2.
On October 8th, 1884, I villited Wm. Eglinton with Mr. Munro. We sat
ill the same position and room as described in Experiment No.1, except that,
during part of the time Mr. Munro changed places with me and sat next to·
the medium.
Although the conditions appeared exactly similiar as on our previous.
experiment nevertheless we failed to obtain the slightest manifestation of
any kind, and although we sat for two hours and tried with the medium's.
own slates we failed to obtain a single word. [So J. D.]
Mr. Davey'S statement as above is correct.-H. A. MUNRO.
SEANCE No.3.
On October 9th, accompanied by Mr. Munro and X--, I again visited'
William Eglinton, and as X-- had never experimented before we deemed
it best he should sit next to the medium. With this exception our positions.
were similiar as to Diagram in Experiment No.1.
• We have thought it unnecessary to reproduce thill.-ED.
gitized by (.oogI
-4:)40 JOltl'lUtl of Society fOl' PRYckical RR-8eal'Ch. [Oct.,1886.
X-'- having brought a folding alate we commenced our experiment.
with this.
Between the said slate an answer to our query was received, and we then
tried in the method before described in ~ce No.1, p. 4.*
I had alBO brought a number of pencil grains. and on the previous eYen-
ing we had soaked these in ink, BO that if the writing was done by the
identical pieces we had put in, we should have a certain proof of same, in
the ink on the faceted points of the same being visibly worn ofr.
In every case when we used our own pencil grains we found this to be
the case.
On one of our own slates X-- wrote a question unknown to anyone
but. himself, and then having placed the slate in such a manner as precluded
the possibility of anyone seeing the same, he requested a reply. This beiDg
'satisfactorily answered, I unlocked the folding slates (of the late Prince
Leopold) and unknown to any of the other Bitters wrote a question. I
then fastened the Brahma lock and placed the key in my pocket.
For BOme minutes no sound of writing occurred and I unlocked the slate
and placed one of my inked pencil grains within and then again re-Iocked
1I8.me, and putting the key in my pocket held the slate over the table.
Although we fancied we heard BOund of writing it Wall impossible to exactly
.eertify to it all it Wall extremely faint.
We theu requested the intelligence to let us know if it would comply
with our conditions, and answer our question between the locked alate. On
one of the ordinary slates held by X-- and the medium we were informed
that our request should be granted as soon all sufficient power was procured.
A few seconda after this the BOund of writing Wall mOlt distinctly audible
in the locked slate; it then stopped after a short time and on unlocking
the Brahma lock I found a mOlt emphatic answer doubly underlined, my
inked pencil being nearly half worn away.
I then placed between one of our slates a grain of pink and a grain of
dark blue crayons and I requested an answer to my question to be writtAm
in alternate colours under the same conditions as Ex. 1. P. 4.,* X--'. hand
holding the slates.
This experiment Wall also aatiafactorily carried out.
I then requested to sit next to the medium, and changed placea with
X-- for that purpose.
Selecting a large slate 12! x 9 inches I requested a long answer to be
written in reply to my query that it should be something of interest and I
alao said under these conditions I should like some Greek.
I then held the slate in exactly the same poaition as Ex. 1. P.4.
INSTA.NTLY the BOund of writing became audible and whilst holding the
alate I looked under the table and saw that Wm. Eglinton's hand Wall perfectly
still. I could distinctly hear the pencil travel over the slate. When it WIll
'some three quarters of the way to the bottom it suddenly stopped
.and commenced again after the lapse of a few seconds.
. At the time I remarked this to my frienda. After BOme 60 or 70 aeccnda
* See the paragrapb beginning .. I was, bowever, by DO means satiJ-
ficd."-ED.
Digitized by Google
()ct., 1886.] JO'U1"1Ull of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 4!l5
from the commencement the ullual 3 tapa were given and on removing
the slate I found a long meuage signed J. L. or S. 1 the writing was entirely
different to any of the other banda I have seen. .
The mOllt remarkable part of this experiment Wall about three quarters
down the lllate as a quotation occurs 3 lines of well written Greek with
1MlCentll, a language of which the medium profeBBell himself entirely ignorant.
The letters are all marveloully regular and the linell are all perfectly
atraight. The rough sketch herewith may aerve to IIhow the manner and
position in which the Greek occurs.
Then taking two of my own slatell and placing them in exact juxtaposition
I requellted writing.
X-- and Mr. Munro held the alates over the table, Mr. Eglinton
:grasping one comerof the lI8.IIle.
Writing was then audible for a few lleCond8 and on removing the alate we
found" good bye" written in the centro of the upper one.
[So J. D.]
I certify that the above lltatement by Mr. Davey in reference tomyaelf is
-correct. H. A. MUlfBo.
All that Mr. Davey baa lltated here in reference to myaelf is correct.
"X--"
Though Tfail to understand the force by which theae meuagell were com-
DlUnicated, I mUllt in candour admit that I was perfectly satisfied with the
Te8ulta obtained, and by the methods adopted.
I was aceptical, and therefore critical, but failed to detect anything either
in the medium, or hill surroundings, of a doubtful character.
November 12,1884.
"X--."
The following passage is from a letter written by X-- to Mr.
])avey, on November 2nd, 1884:-
I have not the least caUlle to IIU11pect Eglinton, from what I saw of him
-11ay, I was perfectly satisfied with his manifelltationll. But what I meant
you to understand was-I was much impreued by what I saw at the time-
too much impreaaed to reason the ma.tter calmly. Now that the first cillid
impreBllion baa been in a measure effaced, I can recall the acene, and though
not feeling aceptical, I can recall things which some people would at once
_e objection to.
I will mention one or two things which have occurred to me.
Eglinton seems to have the lI8.IIle power no matter what the pOllition of
the alarell. If investigating the matter therefore, I IIhould i1uri3t that all
communications were made with the alates upon the table, and not ,,,wkr-
tleath it-to thill he can have no objection.
The convulsive movements which he baa have rather a bad effect on a
.aceptical mind, particula.rly when his convulsions move the slate about too
much.
The placing the alatell beneath the table at all l18emB to me the worst
part in the matter. For what object are they placed beneath the table
Digitized by Google
436 J&urnal oj Society jm' P8ychical Resea1'cTt. [Oct., 1886.
Therefore, see that all your communications take place from the fint in view
of all.
I think also it would be wise to think of questions beforehand, and 80 t.>
frame them that no living person but yourself could answer them-a question
for instance about a subject known only to yourself and a departed person.
Our questions were far too general the other day, and could have been
answered by anyone, if they had the power of writing. You see, if the thing
is genuine, such questions will be answered as easily as others.
I do not know that I have more to say on the matter. The subject is a..
profound mystery to me, and well worthy investigation. Before I am
convinced, however, I shall require to get communications myself, or with
the aid of a few friends. When Munro returns, cawwt we three try 7 If
we get any result it would be direct evidence.
Extract from a Zetur publiahed in .. LIoHT," July 12, 181M.
ByS.J. D.
Having made the acquaintance of Mr. Eglinton, I introduced to him a
friend of mine, and we agreed to try a daylight Mance on Monday, June 30th.
* * * * * * * *
To those persons who have given any time at all to the study of psycho-
logical subjects the idea of trickery or juggling in slate-writing communica-
tion is quite out of the question, but to those of my readers who do not know
much of the subject, I give the conditions under which we .obtained the
message.. I procured two ordinary slates at a stationer'sshop, and these did
not leave my po8&e88ion during the Mance. At first we obtained messages by
simply putting a piece of slate pencil on one slate and holding the slate on the
table. After a while the force became stronger, and messages with various
signatures and styles of writing were received. But the beat test of all 1i"U
when I put a crumb of pencil on the slate and then put another slate over
that; holding the two slates together myself, I then asked if I should ever
become a medium. No sooner was the question asked than I heard the
pencil within begin to move; I heard the crossing of the t's and the forma-
tion of the capital letters, and in a.. few seconds three small mpa were heard,
and to the astonishment of all, when I removed the upper slate I found the
following message written in a clear and good~ hand. I was particular to
notice that the Bmall crumb of pencil was nearly worn out, and was left at the
very end of the flourish of the signature. Thus it was written ;-
DEAR Sm,-We perceive that you possess mediumistic powers of very high
order, but you have not always done what is right for their development. It is
necessary that you should form a circle of friends, those who are in sympathy
with you in your desire to cultivate the power given you, and with them enter
upon your development, but not too often. The uncomfortable seizures which
sometimes possess you are but a prelude to other and stronger manifestations,
and really come from someone who is desirou8 of manifesting to you, but who
does not know the method of doing so. We shall take agreat interest in help·
ing you, and you may be assured ofour presence whenever we can get the power.
ERNEST.
Now I uk the thinking reader how could a communication like the aboTe
be written in about forty aeconds. and how could any human being have
Digitized by Google
()c:t., 1886.] JOlJ.,~·nal of Soc~ty fo), Psychical Re8earclL. 4:17
done it by trickery when in broad daylight I had both slates held fimlly
together in my own hands, and how could the medium have known about the
.seizures which occurred in the privacy of my own family circle and of which I
had not told him 1 I may mention that Mr. Eglinton W88 10 affected by con-
vulsive seizures .during the latter part of the IIMnce that I wished to give
it up, but he begged us to continue as he was as much interested as we were.
However, after about three-quarters of an hour of constant communication
we were informed by the intelligences that the power was nearly exhausted,
and the meuages became difficult to decipher, and at last we were told by
rapa they could write no more, and even these became fainter and fainter. I
must Bay Mr. Eglinton appeared IOmewhat exhausted, and as I had aJao lont
much power I felt I had done enough, specially as one of my unseen friends
had advised me in a written meuage that I was not sufficiently physically
strong to try too severe experiments. I could give numerous other meuages
here, but as they were mOltly of a private nature, and only interesting to my-
aelf and friends, I IIhaJl not do 10.
Report publiJaed in "LIOHT," October 25th, 1884.
By S. J. D.
The psychography produced through the mediumahip of Mr. W.
Eglinton, is now 10 well authenticated to all readers of "LIoHT," that I
-refrain from giving minute details of a mOlt interesting IIMnce I had with
that gentleman, on the aftemoon of October 9th.
I had previously called on Mr. Eglinton on the aftemoon of October 8th,
accompanied by an old friend, designated Mr. M.
We sat for nearly two hours, hoping Emest, or his kindred companions,
would give us the manifestations we 10 patiently BOught, but in vain.
At two o'clock on Thursday (the next day), we again met, I being accom-
,parried on that occasion aJao by another friend.
We sat as usual. Questions, often beyond the knowledge of the medium,
yere aaked, and the answers received on a small folding slate I had brought
for the purpose. .
At my request answers were given in alternate colours of crayon pre-
viously placed between the slates by my own hand.
Not to test Mr. Eglinton's honesty (for of that all who know him are
.aBIIured), but for the purpose of rendering the experiments more complete,
I put in a small grain of pencil, the tip of which I had previously prepared
by immersing it in ink. With this piece of pencil, between two slates of my
own bringing, I requested the intelligence to write.
They immediately did so, and on removing the slate I found the inked
grain of pencil wom quite away at the faceted point, thus clearly shewing
that it W88 the same piece I had inserted that had been used.
Between the famous slate presented to Mr. Eglinton by a distinguished
pereonage, with a strong Brahma lock securely fastened by myself, we ob-
tained meaaages in the well-known handwriting of Joey.
After sitting for upwards of an hour. we concluded that a moat successful
.aMnce W88 at an end. The medium, however, continued under control, and
taking a large slate, after carefully cleaning it, I placed it under the flap of
the table, holding it closely there, and requested that, if poBIible, a lengthy
Digitized by Google
438 Journal of Society for Psychi.cal Be8em-cll. [Oct.,I886_
meaage might be written, &lao hinting that if it were partly in Greek it
would be very interesting.
Scarcely a minute elapaed before the pencil began to move, and wrote
with great rapidity.
I looked under the table, holding the alate firmly with my handa. Mr.
Eglinton's hand, whioh rested on mine, waa perfectly quieaoent.
The writing had continued for about fifty aeoonda, when it paused, and
commenced again in a different style. I remarked this at the time, and alaG
called attention to the fact that the pencil waa then at about the further end
of the alate, lOme three injlhes from the bottom.
Then again the writing paused, and proceeded with the same rapidity as
before. The meaaage aa follows waa what we found written on the alate, in a.
bold, distinct writing, diKerent from either Ernest's or Joey'a.
As will be seen, the pause that I noticed waa merely the commencement.
of the Greek quotation.
Not the leaat interesting part of this· experiment waa that when my ear
waa about an inoh oft" the slate I waa able to detect the variations of the
writing.
The Greek, on being submitted to an expert, waa declared to be wonder-
fully exact in the formation of the letters, and thus, with such startling
rapidity and oorreotneaa, the following meaaage was written :-
.. On a recent oooaaion we had an opportunity of giving you absolute and
undeniable proof of our ability to manifest ouraelvea. Most thinkers who,
like yourself, dare to investigate any new truth, can always find comfort in
the knowledge obtained and especially 80, air, is it in your caae, for by our
advice and the guidance of Ernest you have developed your own powers to an
appreciable extent.
.. Do not be too anxious to make converts, or worry over aoeptioa. As
the Lord said :-
"AcfH'r. GWovs· 63'fYOl .lIT, nxf>Aol nxf>AG.II· TVcf>Aos 3i nxf>AoII I. o&rrri
dp.cf>ar.fJO' .Zs {JOIJvIlOII ",.croiiIl7"G'."
" They must seek to find the light aa you hat'e done.
.. Be aaaured we shall continue to aid you all we can.
"J. S."
Who my unseen oommunicant, "J. S.," was, I have yet to learn, but he
certainly apl>eara to have taken an interest in my welfare.
Amongst Spiritualiata, slate-writing, through Mr. Eglinton, now seems
to have become almost an every-day phenomenon; yet to view it Blust
always fill one with astonishment and wonder.
The sentences written 80 rapidly and 80 full of pith and shrewd obser-
vation always strike even the most sluggish inquiriers witb amazement.
The next statement h88 just been received from Mr. Munro.
October 8th, 1886.
The fellowing are a few details not mentioned by Mr. Davey in his
aocounts of sMnces with Mr. Eglinton, which appeared in Light of July and
October, 1884 :-On one oocaaion the piece of pencil, which had been put into
Mr. Eglinton'. looked alate waa miasinl{ when we opened the alate. Mr.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1886.] J01w'nal 0/ Society /01' P8ychical Re8earclL. 439-
Eglinton explained this fact by saying II Joey" had dematerialieed the.
pencil; I have often noticed Mr. Eglinton shake the locked slate, as if to see
whether the pencil was still inside.
We never got a long meuage on our own slates, nor upon Eglinton's alate&.
when they were marked.
We frequently received answers to early questions, when we had subse-
quently asked others, and were intent on getting the latter answered; so that
we were sometimes unable for a time to understand the answer we received.
Previous to Mr. Davey's asking for some Greek writing,Mr. Eglinton had
been telling us of a long Greek meuage he had received at another IMWlce.
Mr. Davey asked the question .. Shall I become a medium 1" several
times before it was answered, and I mtJla" fancy it was originally suggested
by Mr. Eglinton himself.
On one occasion we got two lines of writing running into one another,.
the last liBe being partly written over the firat.
During the seances Mr. Eglinton kept us frequently engaged in conversa-
tion, and reqU6ll~ us not to keep our minds too intent on getting writing.
Mr. Eglinton's own conversation was upon interesting and exciting topics,.
and frequently related to events that had taken place at his IMWlceS.
The packet of inked crumbs of pencil was shown Eglinton early in the.
_anee, and the pieces of pencil themaelves were left about the table
throughout the ~ance. Our omployment of them cannot therefore be con-
aideroo a proper teat.
We on no occasion got any information, beyond what Mr. Eglinton
himaelf might have gained from a Perfectly natural source.
Once or twice in the middle 01 the ~ance Mr. Eglinton had to leave the·
room to attend to someone at the door.
H. A. MUN&O.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OP THB SocIBTY POR PSYCHICAL RBBEARCH.
Sm,-I am sorry that I misunderstood Mr. Templeton's letter in the
Journal for July, but it never occurred to me that he attributed to me a
.. hasty judgment" as to the poaaibility of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism, for on this point I have never expreBBed any decided opinion;
indeed I tried to make clear in the paper which I read in May, and which
will appear in the next number of the P.roceedillg3, that on this point my
judgment is in suspense. I supposed,therefore, that Mr. Templeton's charge
of .. hasty judgment" must refer to the only conclusion I had expre88ed in
the article to which he was replying-namely, that Mr. Eglinum'8 phenomella
are flot genuine.
It appears that I have also misunderstood Mr. Templeton's reference t~
Mrs. Newnham's experiences, supposing that he alluded to the thought-
transference so curiously exemplified therein, and not rather to the
combination of this with unconscious cerebration and automatic writing.
I did so because I regarded unconscious cerebration and automatic action
Digitized by Google
440 JOlu'n(tl of Soci~ty fOl' Psyclti.cal .Reseal'ch. [Oct., 1886.
.all factlt recognised by acience, while a belief in telepathy is as yet
a departure from .. scientific orthodoxy." No doubt there is still much to
learn about unconscioua cerebration, and we·m:l.y find therein the key to
much that now puzzles us. But no amount of diacovery about the psychical
proceBBes involved in experiences like Mrs. Newnham'a-not even evidence
that an external intelligence could produce directly through our organiama
-effects (e.g., writing) in the external world-would juatUy ua in inferring t:.hM
-either our conaciou8 or unconacious aelves, or an external intelligence, could
produce similareffect& without ourorganiams, or by means of some subtle and
hitherto unknown "nerve forco." The poaaibility of this, if it be poaaible.
must be proved independently. What Mr. Templeton calla "only an
-extended or additional invisible 88 well as unconacious power over a pencil ..
is juat what constitutes the enormoua difl'erence, as it aeems to me, between
the automatic and the physical phenomena of so-called Spiritualism.
But it is not, 8.8 Mr. Templeton still seems to think,on general consider&-
tiona as to poBBibility that I baae my judgment of Mr. Eglinton's
perfonnancea. It ia-8.8 I tried to make clear both in my remarks in June
and in my reply to Mr. Templeton in August-on very definite and
llarticular grounds connected with Mr. Eglinton'8 antecedents and the nature
•-of the phenomena deacribed, that I have "tl()W no hesitation" in attributiug
bia performances to conjuring.
I am glad Mr. Templeton thinks the hypothetical experiment deacribed
in my last letter a good one, and-though this baa of course no direct bearing
<on the subject of Mr. Eglinton,-I should be intel'Ollted to learn which he
conaiders the equally striking proofs in Profeeaor Zollner's and Mr. Crookea'
books.
Perhaps, in concluaion. you will allow me to say a few worda in reply to
llr. Wyndham, since bia letter seemB to concern me fully as much sa it doea
4 'Mr. A."
I am not at liberty 'to say anything that might tend either directly or
indirectly to throw light on Mr. A.'B identity, and I can therefore neither
affirm nor deny that he is the lIIUIle peraon 8S .. S..T.D." 1 am not, however,
without hope that when Mr. Wyndham baa had an opportunity of reading my
ploper, which will appear in the forthcoming number of the Prouedings, he
will agree with me that the queBtion, so far as my argument is concerned, is
unimportant.
I am led to suppoae that when he wrote his letter:llr. Wyndham had
heard only some second·hand and incorrect report of what I said at the
meeting in May, by his asBumption that Mr. A. is a .. writer," and his
apparcnt implication that I have availed myself of statements made by Mr.A.
He will find, hQwever, that in my paperMr. A. is introduced only as a conjurer
whoBe performance I witneased,and that I have availed myaelf of no statement
of his except the statement that bia own perfonnance was conjuring. This
being so, I am unable to Bee how what I say would be in the least degree
affected by a knowledge of Mr. A.'s identity, or of his opiniona and previous
experiencea.-I am, Sir, &c.,
ELEANOR MILDRED SlooWI(.'J[.
&ptem.ber 25th, 1886.
Digitized by Google
