{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mari_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Mari C NDE 184","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mari C NDE 184  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Mari C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						629  Mari C NDE  184  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had a tonsillectomy and all went well until discharge, when I was given an injection of sulphur. I have no recall of any of this until I reacted about 15 minutes later in the car on the way home. I remember being sick on my mother’s lap and seeing the skin reaction. Next recall is sitting in the wall of the emergency section of the hospital and watching the events separate from myself.


The time seemed inconsequential and I was uninterested until a separate space opened in the room and I left. After a hazy journey (seemingly short), I was enveloped in light and exquisite and infinite love. By now, I recall this as an ageless soul. I felt, as best as I can describe, in a state of total bliss. Once again, there is no language to convey feelings. There seemed to be a collective consciousness who welcomed me, but at the same time conveyed the knowledge that I was the one responsible for the decision to stay or go back. I recall these decisions not as a small child but a person with accumulated knowledge to evaluate the choice and make a decision. The decision to return was based on the knowledge that I was not finished in my life and there were things to accomplish and fulfill. There was no distress at the thought of return and, once the decision was made, there was no more recall.


These experiences have stayed crystal clear and as fresh as when they occurred.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    November 1956

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction    Clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don't recall an appearance, and it seems to be too earthbound a concept to be a relevant question. The feeling was that ‘I existed?’

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In body, I was totally unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time was of no consequence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Not exactly a tunnel but an opening into another space.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Contentment, peace, thoughtful, safe, returned to home?

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     This question leaves me unable to respond. I was aware that I had come home from a short journey and would be off on another.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As in an above question, I made a decision to return and this was my decision, but without words, the ‘soul group was a sounding board for my thoughts’.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     Too young.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   There is no language to provide verbal expression to some of my experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     Too young to have had previous life experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There were no bad parts and I feel secure in the process.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mari_c_nde.html