{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mari_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Mari E NDE 2742","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mari E NDE 2742  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mari E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						914  Mari E NDE  2742  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I do not very often share my experience not because it was not real but because I cannot make people understand the depths of what it meant to me and I feel they make light of it. It was and still is very surreal to me and when I recall it I still feel what I felt to the same intensity.

Happened approximately five years ago, was flat lined for forty-six seconds. Allergic reaction to Aleve.

I knew I was dying and as soon as I accepted it, I started doing a checklist in my mind - is there anything else I want to do and or accomplish with my life? After I went through all the places I had been and the level of business I was in I felt very fortunate and my answer to myself was 'NO' I have been very lucky. Do I have anything left unsaid to anyone that I still need to say? My answer to myself was once again 'NO' I tell my children and family every day that I love them and not only do I tell them I show them. I always let everyone know how I feel and I am all right with everyone. My final check in was - will my boys be loved and taken care of? My final answer to myself was 'YES' they have my family and their wonderful father and they are strong and healthy and well always have love and support throughout life.

As soon as I did my 'checklist' of my life I suddenly felt as though I was floating and I felt very peaceful and then a bright light came around me and it felt as though the light became a large hand that surrounded and cradled me in it with warmth and comfort. When I was safe, secured by this light I looked up and saw what I knew to be my body. It was in an image of a sort of Gumby it has no distinct characters other then it appeared to be glowing sort of and the color of flesh with what appeared to have had veins running through it. My feeling where this is so beautiful - I am leaving my body and I get to take all the wonderful good feelings and thoughts with me! At that very moment, everything went dark and I felt as though someone had jumped on my chest (this must have been from the paddles being put on me!). I then opened my eyes and saw many faces all around me (which was a team of doctors and nurses). I knew what had happened and was very confused as to why I had to come back and still do not know.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 APPROX 5 YEARS AGO  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Allergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) FLATLINES FOR 46 SECONDS  Not sure what you mean by this. It was the first time I had ever taken Aleve and it was an allergic reaction to the medication.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More focused due to the fact I knew what was happening to me and I had no idea what to expect. I mean you go through life knowing most of the time what to expect from day to day but when the unexpected happens and you are aware you tend to tune in to the what to know need to know more vividly.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I accepted I was dying.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt like I was in the moment. But it was a unfamiliar moment to me - which was the afterlife.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I remember every detail to this day just like it just happened.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not hear anything outside of the experience only my thoughts at the moment.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I more so felt and became part of the light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes the out of body (what i call it) experience ... where my soul was with the light and I could see my (in a different form) body  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful, happy, free, enlightened - blissful state.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I do not very often share my experience. Not because it was not real, but because I cannot make people understand the depths of what it meant to me - I feel they make light of it. It was and still is very surreal to me and when I recall it, I still feel what I felt to the same intensity.  I knew I was dying and as soon as I accepted it, I started doing a checklist in my mind: Is there anything else I want to do and or accomplish with my life? After I went, through all the places I had been and the level of business I was in I felt very fortunate and my answer to myself was 'NO' I have been very lucky. Do I have anything left unsaid to anyone that I still need to say? My answer to myself was once again 'NO' I tell my children and family every day I love them and not only do I tell them I show them. I always let everyone know how I feel and I am all right with everyone. My final check in was, will my boys be loved and taken care of? My final answer to myself was 'YES' they have my family and their wonderful father and they are strong and healthy and well always have love and support throughout life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Have felt I have always been aware in some way, shape, or form, of how events really happened or are going to happen - sometimes it is not a gift at all.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   SPIRITUAL  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   SAME  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Not afraid of death at all and alright to go when it is my time and actually look forward to it - just really trying to find out why I am still here. I think it is because of my sons who are nine and twelve years of age.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The depth of the experience and it being so surreal - the feelings of it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The soul separating from the body - I know you take everything good with you with the exception of the physical body.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shortly afterwards when I was alone with someone for the first time. Not really aware of other's reactions because when I relive it I feel like I am there again and I do not really analyze others.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just in general, such as bright light and you're past passing in front of you - now that I have experienced it - it is really nothing the way it is described to be.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As I say - it feels like only yesterday, when I speak of it I literally cry.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I did have another allergic reaction which everything was the same with the exception of passing. I then and now carry an EpiPen.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Consider the overall statement of experience and then come back with a questionnaire to show you are listening.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mari_e_nde.html