{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1margie_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Margie A NDE 4561","mylang":"de"}
          	        Margie A NDE 4561  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Margie A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2297 Margie A NDE 4561  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been bleeding heavily because of a placenta Previa. It took hours to get to the emergency room. I woke up looking down on myself from up by the ceiling. I wasn't frightened; I tried to tell everyone working on me that I was okay.

They couldn't hear me. The doctor was shouting at a maintenance man to hurry up with some wooden blocks. They were putting them under the foot-end of the bed. And he was shouting about the blood - where was it? When he said, 'It's too late.' I instantly left the room. (It was a huge room-that was strange; I worked at the same hospital and there wasn't a room like that anywhere.)

Now I was moving in a wonderful soft pinkish-golden presence. The presence with me was Love and Peace and I was wrapped inside. It was quiet and so beautiful that I wanted to stay there forever. Outside of this presence was a golden light. I was lifted up and up. I was aware that I had to go back and I didn't want to. Then in an instant, I was back in my body. I opened my eyes and there was blood hanging on the IV pole. Everyone seemed glad to see me.

I will never be afraid to die; I have longed for that place of Peace and Love ever since.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/6/62

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Other 'I heard the doctor say, ''it's too late! she's gone.'''

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was being lifted up toward that golden light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was being lifted up toward that golden light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was probably gone for minutes from this world and what seemed a long time on that other journey.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no darkness; only a brilliant out of the world light and Love and Peace and God.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was aware of communication at this time, but it wasn't with words; I don't know how!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I left the room, but I don't remember a tunnel; everything was with me at once. I was moving toward a brilliant golden light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't see other beings but felt the One with me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   My whole experience was in a bright pinkish-golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, comfort, Love, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Presbyterian Sunday school

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Organized religion seems like a step backwards. I want to shout at them. (To open their eyes.)

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I am a Christian; no organized religion.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Organized religion seems like a step backwards. I want to shout at them. (To open their eyes.)

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   In my work at the hospital, I came across many people in critical conditions. I could tell by their faces that they had crossed to that beautiful place.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I see things differently; am more tolerant.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to communicate only because there are no words or earthly things to compare to the feeling and vision.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being wrapped in unconditional love. I always thought I had to do something here on earth to earn it. That it was for me was a revelation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About six years later I shared with a church group. I couldn't tell if they believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I will never forget this experience. It is as real as breathing, smiling, loving, and waking up in the morning with the sun on your face.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think I just answered this question!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1margie_a_nde.html