{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1margaret_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Margaret J NDE 5131","mylang":"de"}
          	        Margaret J NDE 5131  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Margaret J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2668 Margaret J NDE 5131  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The light was green.  It was a blind intersection with buildings on the corners, I got in the intersection, and there was a car one foot from my door. I felt a little anger that I didn't have time to scream.  I thought, 'I don't want to die!' All the people I was close to flashed through my mind. I reached my hand out to brace myself on the dash, and realized I might lose my arm that way so I pulled my hand back. The car hit my driver's door, and the car spun, the back end finally hitting a pole (bless it!) as I was about to bash into the far door. (My boyfriend had talked me out of wearing my seatbelt a week before, told me it was going to get me killed.) I had flown to the safe side of the car. The car was still running - the noise of the wreck was so loud and violent - I heard the sound of silence, for the first time in my life. I thought to get out of the car and wanted very much to go to sleep but there was broken glass everywhere so I leaned against the building. A man came to me with a gash on his forehead and said, 'Are you alright.' I said, 'I guess so.'

It was then I realized someone was in the car that hit me, and I felt forgiveness flow over me for this person. He went to call his mom and someone from their car asked if I wanted them to call an ambulance, I said yes. 

The next thing I knew I was jumping on the clouds, I thought this is great this is wonderful I don't care about all those people I left behind. It was so very beautiful. Years later, as I got to fly on a plane, I saw the same beautiful look of those clouds. 

Next thing I knew I started feeling pain, and thought, 'Oh no, I must be alive!' I was back in my body, the police were there, and the ambulance and about eighty people against the buildings watching the activity. I asked the man next to me if he would please get my shoe from the green car, and he went and got it. No one noticed me standing there with one shoe and cuts all over me I guess, I am glad so I wasn't interrupted in the clouds.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 23, 1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was jumping on the clouds.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was jumping on the clouds.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It just seemed like a few minutes went by but at least a half hour must have gone by for all those people and the police and ambulance to have been there when I got back.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, up in the sky jumping on the clouds

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom and a great joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been psychic so I cannot be sure if I am more psychic than before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared it with others about four or five years after. They usually just listen and don't comment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was there, so I know it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as before, I can still vividly picture it all in my mind, like going back and repeating it at will.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is something that I always remember, and the freedom - how I yearn to be free again, as soon as I'm done here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1margaret_j_nde.html