{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6469","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n34_nov_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N34 November 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXIV.-VoL. D. NOVBllBBB, 1888.
JOURNAL
OJ'TUB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCmCAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNTS.
PAOli:
·. "1 IOn the BeDorte. printed In the Jl1Umal
· ."2 for Jane;of SIUlnpwith Mr. Eg1IntoD 481
·. m The CbarpI apInat Mr. Bgllntoo .. fill
· . W ColT8!lpoodeoce . . . . . . •• MIll
Supplementary IJbrary Catalope . . .n
New Memben and ~tee ..
Meetinp of CouocIl . . . . . .
Report of the General Meeting
RePly to MIll. Sldgwlck ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
BBAUNIS, PROI'BSSOB H., 29, Rue des Ecuries d'Artois, Paris.
LrEGBOIS, PROI'BSSOR, Nancy.
RIBOT, T. H., Office of the Revue PkikJaophique, Paris.
TAINB, H., Menthon St. Bernard, Haute Savoie, France.
MEMBERS.
OMAN, CHARLBS W. C., M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
W 008NAM, W. BURG088, M.A., Petitor House, St. Mary Church,
Torquay.
ASSOCIATES.
BACCHUS, Mas., Sherbourne Villa, Leamington.
BLACKWOOD, MISS CSCILIA GBACB, Shortlands, near Bromley, Kent.
BBBWSTER, Mas. F., 10, Park Terrace, Nottingham.
GREAVBS, R. H., Bengal Civil Service, care of Messrs. Grindlayand Co.,
55, Parliament Street, London, S.W.
HASTIE, MISS, Luscar, Dunfermline, N.B.
KIRBY, Mas. GEORGIANA B., Santa Cruz, California, U.S.A.
KNOX, NATHANlBL ALBXANDBR, Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
PON80N;BY, MISS, GlenBOuthwell, Rathfarnham, Co. Dublin.
REICHEL, PRINCIPAL HENRY RUDOLPH, M.A., University Oollege
Bangor, North Wales.
RoDGER, W. WALLACH, 31, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.
RoSENBACH, DB. PAUL, Kaiserliche Medicinische Akademie, St.
Petersburg.
SUPLBY, ALI'RBD M., St. John's College, Cambridge.
TREvOR, REV. THOMAS WARREN, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris,
North Wales.
W ARRAND, Mas., Bught, Inverness, N.B.
WHITON, JAMBS M., Ph.D., Tremont, New York City, U.S.A.
YOUNG, PaoI'BSBOR WILLIAM H., 76, Lange Strasse, Baden Baden.
2 I'
Digitized by Google
4412 Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Research. [Nov., I88&.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
The first Meeting of the Council after the summer recess was held
on the 15th of October. The following members were present:-
ProfeBBOr W. F. Barrett, Profeaaor H. Sidgwick, the Rev. W. Stainton
Moses, and Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, F. W. H.
Myers, Frank Podmore, H. A. Smith, J. Herbert Stack, and Hensleigh
Wedgwood. Professor H. Sidgwick occupied the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
One new Member and twelve new Associates, whose names and
addreaaea are given on the preceding page, were elected.
Information was received with regret of the death of Professor
Boutlerof, one of the Corresponding Members of the Society, and of
Mn. Balmain, an A.aaociate.
Mr. Gurney stated that Mr. C. C. Massey desired to resign his seat
on the Council. His resignation was accepted with regret.
A pamphlet of Dr F~re's, sent by the author, was accepted for the
Library, with thanks.
Cash accounts for the months of August and September were
presented in the usual form, and the needful accounts passed for pay-
ment.
A letter from Mr. Percy Wyndham relating to Mrs. Sidgwick's
paper, read before the Society on May 3rd, 1886, was laid before the
Council; but being informed that a reply from Mrs. Sidgwick was
to appear in the forthcoming (October) number of the Journal, the
Council did not consider it needful to take any steps in the matter.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 5th of
November.
At the Meeting of the Council on the 5th of November the follow-
ing Members were present :-Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund
Gurney, Richard Hodgson, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and
Henaleigh Wedgwood. Mr. Wedgwood was voted to the chair.
The Minutes of last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Mr. Edmund Gurney proposed the election, as Corresponding
Members of the Society, of Professors Beaunia and Li~geois, and of
Measrs. Ribot and Taine, whose names and addresses appear in full on
the preceding page. The resolution was unanimously carried.
One new Member and four new Aasociates, whose names are in-
cluded in the list on the preceding page, were also elected.
A cash account for the month of October was presented in the
usual form.
At this and at the preceding Meeting of the Council the question of
Digitized by Google
Nov.,l886.] Journal oj Society for P8'lJchical Research. 443
the tenure of the premises at 14, Dean's Yard, engaged attention. The
existing lease to the Society terminates on the 25th of March next.
Dr. Stone's lease of the whole premises terminates on the 29th of
September next. Dr. Stone having expressed his willingness that the
present arrangements between himself and the Societyshould be extended
from the 25th of March, 1887, to the 29th of September, 1887, it was
resolved that this should be done, and the House and Finance Com-
mittee were instructed accordingly. The question of future arrangements
in regard to 14, Dean's Yard, was left in the hands of the House
and Finance Committee, who will report as soon as any definite
proposal has been obtained from the landlord or from Dr. Stone.
The next Meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the 3rd of
December, at 4.30 p.m.
REPORT OF THE GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
October 29th, at the rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk
Street, Pall Mall.
Professor H. Sidgwick occupied the chair. He called upon Mr. F.
W. H. Myers, who, had been announced as about to read a paper on
"Multiplex Personality.'
Mr. Myers began by apologising for the fact that the paper in
question had appeared that morning in print in the NiMteenth Cent'Ul1'1J
for November, some days before the nominal date of issue of that
review. But though he could not read them the paper itself, he would
be glad further to illustrate some of the views contained in it by an
account of some experiments recently witnessed in Paris by Mr. Gurney,
Dr. Myers, and himself. The following is an expanded version of a
part of the account given :-
On Monday, Oct. 25, we attended a meeting of the Societe de
Psychologie Physiologique, at which two papers were read of great
importance for our researches. One of them was an account of a case
of lucidity, or transposition of the senses, recently observed by a
physician at Toulon. When this paper is printed we shall have to
discuss it carefully. It is the only well-attested case of the kind of
which we have been able to hear during the -w:hole course of our in-
quiries. The second paper was read by Dr. Babinski, a physician at
the Sal~triere, giving an account of some experiments inthe transference
of hysterical symptoms, without suggestion of any kind, but by the aid
of a. magnet, from one patient to another. It is obvious that if this
experiment really succeeds, and is capable of repetition, it is of quite
capital importance for our researches. It is necessary, therefore, that
2 ., 2
Digitized by Google
444 Jml/mal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.,l886.
we should understand it thoroughly and follow its development with
care. In order to do this it will be needful briefly to retrace some of
the previous experiments which have led up to Dr. Babinski's.
I must here pass over the earlier inquiries (Andry and Thouret, 1777,
Trousseau, 1833, Burq, 1851, &c.) and go at once to the French
Commission of 1877, which concluded that certain unilateral troubles
of sensibility were capable of being transferred from one side of the
body to the other by the application of a magnet or a plate of metal to
any part of the body. And here at once we are treading on somewhat
uncertain ground. This alleged specific power of metals and magnets
has never been fully accepted in England; and it is greatly to be
desired that a series of English experiments should be instituted to
confirm or disprove it,-electro-magnets being employed, and other
means taken to obviate the possibility of suggestion.*
Starting,however, from this datum of the transferability of unilateral
nervous perturbations by the magnet's action, MM. Binetand Fere have
tried many experiments with hypnotized patients, of which I subjoin
a short summary. I am not able to concur with M. Fere as to the
distinct and uniform characterisation of each ofthree stages of hypnot-
ism, or the view that the opening of the eyes will in all cases change
" lethargy" into "catalepsy," or that the rubbing of the top of the
head will in all C&888 change" catalepsy" into "somnambulism." But
I shall employ the terms usual at the Sal~triere.
I. X is plunged in letha.rgy; then left eye opened so that she
is hemi-cataleptic on left side. Left fore-arm is raised and left in ver-
tical position. A hidden magnet is placed almost, not quite, in contact
with the right fore-arm. The right fore-arm, which had been lying on
the table, raises itself in a vertical position, the left arm trembles and
falls on the table. The catalepsy has been transferred to the right
side.
II. Witt- is in the 80mnambulic state. The hypnotizer suggests
to her to make figures, 1, 2, 3, &c., with her right hand. She is
awakened; a magnet being hidden near her left hand. She writes the
numerals up to twelve with her right hand, then hesitates, takes the
pen in her other hand, and begins to write in mirror-writing with her
left hand. I haye witnessed this experiment, (Aug. 25th, 1885). M.
Fere had already remarked (R6'IJ.Phil., Jan. 1885) "nous a.vons souvent
• For some references to the literature of the subject, see my paper on
.. Telepathic Hypnotism II in Proceeding' Part X. The account of Ml\1. Binet
and Fere's experiments which follows is mainly taken from their article on .. I.e
TraM/ert p",chique," in the Reuue PMIOlOphique, Jan. 1885. See also Dr.
Bernheim'. new work .. De III. Buggestion et de 881 applications a III.
tla'rapeutique,II pp. 207 1tJ1J.
Digitized by Google
•
Nov., 1886.] JO'I,wnal of Society for Psychical Research. 445
re~te cette experience; la malacIe s'eat perfectionnee ameaure." One
cannot help thinking, therefore, that the mere fact of finding herself
writing figures with the right hand is now enough to suggest to Witt-
that she is intended to change hands and write with her left.
III. Witt- is in the somnambulic state. It is suggested to her to
repeat the numbers up to 100 aloud. She is awakened and a magnet
placed near her right arm. She counts up to 72, then stops, turns her
head to the left, and is apparently unable to speak. After ten minutes
the magnet is applied to her left side, in two minutes she turns her
head to the right and speaks again, complaining of her previous
inability to do so.
IV. Witt- in somnambulism is told to do 1\ number of things (open-
ing dra.wers and the like) with her right hand. Magnet applied to
right arm. She then obeys the commands with her left hand instead of
her right. This shows, in M. Fere's view, that the resolve or intention
to act in a particular way,-that is to say a virtual act, an "acte qui
est en quelque sorte en puissance dans les cellules cerebrales de la
malade," possesses a "material substratum," and is capable of being
transferted from one side of the brain to the other, in just the same way
as a completed or actual action.
V. And in M. Fere's view this transferability by the magnet's in-
fluence extends not only to the acts suggested by a hypnotizer, but to
acts which appear to the subject herself to be entirely spontaneous.
'Witt-, in her normal state, is asked (not hypnotically commanded) to sit
at a table leaning on her right elbow, to have her portrait taken. A
magnet is concealed near her right elbow. After two or three minutes
she withdraws her right elbow; hesitates; assumes a symmetrical posi-
tion, leaning on the left elbow instead of the right. She says that the
right arm is tired. Here, in M. Fere's view, we have a quite
voluntary act, modified by the magnet's influence, while the subject still
believes that she is acting from her own impulsion.
Moreover, M. Fere has successfully repeated others of these ex-
periments with Witt- in her waking state.
VI. Suggested paralysis can similarly be transferred: involving
physiological symptoms (tumefaction, perspiration, &c.) incapable of
voluntary induction.
VII. Unilateral hallucinations, localised patchea of anresthesia, and
so-called "systematic paralysis" can similarly be transferred. "Tous lea
phenomlmes de la psychologie," concludes M. Fere. "sontjusticiablea de
l'aimant, ala condition d'6tre unilaMraux."
I do not feel sure what is the true interpretation of these trans-
ferences. It may be admitted, I think, that they are not (at least in
all cases) due to mere fraudulent simulation, for the symptoms are some-
Digitized by Google
446 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., I88&.
times (though not always) beyond anyone's power to induce on his own
person.
But I can hardly think that rugg6lltion is quite excluded. We
cannot, I think. be sure that a subject, in however deeply lethargic a
condition, does not understand what is being said in reference to
herself. MM. Binet and Fere further urge that the transferences
effected are anatomically too exact to be effected by a mere suggestion
working itself out in the patient's mind. The patient, for instance,
would not know that an impulse to speak having been given, and the
consequent cerebral activity then transferred to the right hemisphere,
speech would become impossible.
But even admitting that a suggestion works itself out in a manner
which the subject cannot consciously determine,-with an anatomical
exactitude of sequence which is beyond her knowledge,-it does not
therefore follow that it is more or other than a suggestion. It does not
follow, I mean, that the sequence of nervous changes has been set going
by an agency (like the magnet) of a purely physical kind.
On the contrary, analogy makes it probable that a suggested
paralysis, a suggested aphasia, will fulfil itself by unconscious channels
in just the same way as a suggested character or personality (cabman,
opera-singer, or what-not) fulfils itself in a better dramatic representa-
tion of that role than the subject's conscious effort could have given.
A suggestion which takes effect at all takes effect unMTingly ;-that is
to say, the subject's nervous apparatus carries out the idea as well as it
can, unhindered by the mistakes or clumsiness of the conscious mind.
The ezpr6llnon of countenance, for instance, corresponds to the
suggested character with much more dramatic propriety than the subject
could assume in ordinary life. Vmous facial muscles, that is to say,
over which the voluntary control of most men is very imperfect, are
set in action in obedience to the pervasive 'conception of a specific
character which has been conveyed by suggestion to the brain.
We may now have some conception of the base from which Dr.
Babinski's new departure is taken. He maintains that just as the
magnet will transfer hysterical affections, &c., from one side of A's
body to a symmetrical position on the other side, 80 it will also transfer
these from A to a symmetrical position on B. This is an experiment
which does not loolc Tery different from Dr. Fere's experiments ;-which
,e6mB to be a kind of development of results already obtained. But in
reality it involves crossing the whole gulf which separates telepathy
from the recognised laws at once of psychology and physiology.
To suppose that a magnet transfers a suggested paralysis from A's
right hand to A's left hand is no doubt startling enough. But if es-
tablished, it only shows that a physical agency, not hitherto generally
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.] Journal Of Society lOT Psychical Research. 447
recognised as in1luencing the nervous system, does affect the nervous
system in the same way as other agencies (hysterical disease, hypnotic
suggestion,) are known to affect it. Strange and important though such
a conclusion would be, it would be in a certain sense analogous with
previous discoveries. But if it is proved that a magnet transfers a
sensation from one nervous system to another nervous system, this,
though not contradictory to any previously established knowledge, is
not analogou. thereto. It is not analogous to anything except similar
telepathic transferences, such as are described in Pha'lltaBmB of the
Living, and which I do not venture to term utohliaked, although I hope
that that book, and our Proceeding., may go some way towards
establishing them as a proved reality.
I need hardly say that in thus pointing out the wideness of the
interval between M. Fere's experiments and M. Babinski's, I am not
seeking to diacredu M. Babinski's. On the contrary, I am anxious both
that full credit should be given to M. Babinski for his forward step
(if he succeeds in making it good,) and also that the essential character
of the experiments should be understood, in order to guide the observers
who may repeat them.
M. Babinski attempted an experiment at the meeting of the Societe
de Psychologie Physiologique to which I have already referred. But-
and this is a. remark which I commend to those of our members who
very naturally wish to see experiments at our Society's General
Meetings-the conditions of such an auemblage are quite unsuited
to delicate experimentation with human subjects. The experiment
succeeded, indeed; but no fitting arrangements could be made to
avoid suggestion; and we accepted gratefully Dr. Babinski's permission
to witness a repetition of the experiment at the Salpetriere on the
following day.
Two hysterical women, Gr. and CI., were selected,-they are, in fact,
the usual subjects,-and we prepared to witness the magnetic trans-
ference of anyone amongst some dozen hysterical affections, communi-
cable by suggestion, from one to the other patient.
I was asked to select the affection which should be suggested. I
chose mutinn as less conspicuous than a paralysis or contracture. Gr.
was then admitted, set down in a chair with her head .leaning against a
screen, hypnotized, and told that she could not speak. The suggestion
at once took effect; but instead of remaining tranquil under the inflic-
tion she made sundry writhings and bumped her head against the
screen. C1. was then brought in, set down on a chair on the other side of
the screen, but with her head resting against the screen, and hypnotized.
A magnet was placed on a table in contact with her left arm. We
spoke to her once or twice and she responded at first normally. But
Digitized by Google
448 Jou'1"1lA1l of Society for Psychical Research. (Nov., l886.
in BOme three minutes she began to show difficulty in speaking, then
anger and inability to speak. About the same time Gr. began to
mutter and talk. It was impossible to say that Gr. had not muttered
before Cl.'s mutism was markedly shown. There might thus have
been suggestion from Gr. to Cl. that dumbneu was the affection
intended to pass from the one to the other. Moreover, the contact of
the two heads with the screen obviously facilitates signalling, had the
two women been in collusion.
We asked that next time they might be placed out of contact with
the screen-a. request to which Dr. Babinski at once acceded. Gr.
was then hypnotized as before, and a contracture of the left arm was
induced. Cl. was brought in and placed near, but not touching, the
screen. The possibility of signalling was, however, not excluded.
There were, moreover several students in the room, and one of them
touched the contra.ctured arm during the experiment. We cannot,
therefore, be quite certain that Cl. did not become aware of the special
phenomenon to be transmitted. The transmission took place in due
course, and was again followed by a "consecutive oscillation" during
which Gr.'s arm was again contractured and Cl.'s again normal.
We now asked that the two subjects should be placed on opposite
sides of a door. Dr. Babinski again at once assented, and Gr. was
removed to an adjoining room, and then hypnotized, and her left foot
turned inwards almost at right angles to its normal position. Mr. Gurney
and Dr. Myers accompanied Gr., and state that the experiment was
somewhat vitiated by the fact that Gr. exclaimed" You are hurting my
foot!" I much doubt, however, whether Cl. (with whom I remained)
could have heard this, as there was much noise of moving table, &C.
on our side of the door. At any rate Cl. was placed near the door, and
in contact with a magnet. In a few seconds she had a violent
hysterical seizure, and the experiments were at an end. But we
observed during her struggles that her right foot was contractured, after
the same fashion as Gr.'s, the contracture persisting through the so-
called "clownisme" and violent confused movements of the seizure. It
looked as though there had been a transfer, but not to the Bafrnl limb;
i.e., a transfer of contracture from Gr.'s left foot to Cl.'s right foot.
On the following day, October 17, Dr. Charcot repeated the
experiment once in the presence of Dr. Myers. The subjects sat back
to back, separated by about a foot, but without any intervening screen
or door, and the transference took effect.
I have described these experiments in detail; for I tbink that
we ought to try to repeat them. Without impugning the methods
used by the staff of the Salpetriere in dealing with patients with
whom they are thoroughly familiar, I may suggest certain rules
gitized by (.oogI
NOT., 1886.] Journal of Society for Psychical RR.sea'rck. 449
which I think ought to guide any repetition of the experiments which
our own Society may attempt.
I. No allusion to the result expected-no verbal suggestion of any
kind-should be made before the subjects in any of their states. We
cannot, as I hold, ever be certain that a subject, however profound her
lethargy may appear, does not hear and understand what is said in her
presence. She probably will retain no memory of it in her normal
state-perhaps not even in lighter hypnotic states-but when she is in
the deep state again she will act on the suggestions received in a
previous deep state. Mr. Gurney's paper on "Stages of Hypnotism"
(Proceeding., Vol. II.), contains abundant demonstration of these
phenomena of memory, in certain English cases at any rate. And in
the Sal~triere itself I have seen M. Auguste Voisin give an effective
suggestion to a subject who was apparently absolutely insusceptible to
any external stimulus, and who gave no sign whatever of having heard
what was said to her.
II. Whenever magnets or metals are used, .ham magnets and .ham
metals should be used also. The electro-magnet obviously affords the
best way of testing the reality of a magnet's influence. By the means
suggested in my paper on "Telepathic Hypnotism" (Proceeding., X.)
the indication given by the" magnetic click" can be avoided, and the
subject can be kept absolutely ignorant as to whether the electro-magnet
is in effect a magnet or no. I do not altogether trust to concealing
magnets under towels, secretly affixing or removing the armature,
or altering the position of the poles. We should trust as little as
possible either to our own good observation or to the mal-observation
of subjects who may conceivably be quite as acute as ourselves. It
is only, I think, by a long series of experiments with the electro-magnet
that we can assure ourselves whether or not the magnet goes for
anything in the physiological transference from one subject to another,
supposing that such transference is produced.
III. Once more, the experiment should be tried on a considerable
number of persons. If, as Dr. Babinski apparently supposes, the trans-
ferability of hysterical symptoms from one person to another is a
phenomenon characteristic of hysteria in the same way as transfer-
ability from one side of a patient to the other side is characteristic,
then we ought to find an abundance of subjects with whom the
experiment can be repeated at will. On the other hand, I think it
likely that we may find that even among hysterical patients, as among
normal subjects, this telepathic capa~ity is a rare and exceptional
thing.
It follows from what I have said that we shall probably have
to remain for some time in suspense as to the precise value of these
Digitized by Google
450 Journal, of Society /0'1' Psychical .Research. [Nov•• 1886.
experiments. But nevertheless the mere fact that these experimenta
are being made, and being made at the Sa.lpetriere, is a gain to our
researches of a most important kind. This powerful group of specialists,
-with a mass of subjects ready to their hands such as perhaps is not
collected elsewhere in the world,-are 1I0W inclining to believe that they
can produce on those subjecta certain telepathic phenomena,-phe-
nomena, that is, of the very kind whose reality our Society has made it
ita fillBt and special business to attempt to demonstrate to the scientific
world. The physicians of the Sa.lpetriere are not likely to drop the
inquiry; and we may hope that the experiments above described are
but the first instalment of what they may yet achieve. I do not know,
indeed,that our own experiments have had anyla.rge share in determining
this new adhesion to Telepathy. But it is characteristic of a true dis-
covery that phenomena which point towards it should occur in indepen-
dent quarters and ill the course of distinct and disparate lines of inves-
tigation.
In another ward of the Salpetriere Dr. Auguste Voisin's courtesy
permitted me (Oct. 27) to witness an experiment interesting in a
different way. As my readers may remember, this distinguished
physician has had unusual success in hypnotizing insane persons, with
permanent benefit to their mental and moral condition.
He has at present under his care a young woman whose history. as
he narrated it to me, indicates a moral obliquity amounting to what is
sometimes c8.lled "moral insanity," while at the sa.me time the intelli-
gence, though low in type, is normal in operation. Besides other
misdoings, the girl was obstinately indolent, and violent and brutal to
her mother, for an assault on whom she had been committed to prison.
I did not precisely understand how she had passed under Dr. Voisin's
care. He told me that he had hypnotized her without much difficulty,
and had thrown her into a state apparently of profound unconscious-
ness. His view, I gather, is that a suggestible subject will comprehend
and respond to suggestion in every hypnotic state; even though she
may give no sign whatever of hearing what is said.
We went into the ward and the girl in question met us. She was
obviously of extremely low type, but her expression was not displeas-
ing, and she ran to meet Dr. Voisin with a sort of doglike anxiety to
please and be commended,-telling him what work she had done,
asking for more work, and promising to give some little pittance
which she earned to her mother. Dr. Voisin hypnotized her by the
gaze in a minute or so, and repeated his moralising suggestions--of
diligence, filial affection, decent behaviour, &c. She made no response
and seemed absolutely insensible and lethargic. To show that she
did really take in what was said, Dr. Voisin asked me to suggest some
Digitized by Google
Nov.,1886.] JO'I.I/M'ud 0/ Society /01' Psychical .Research. 451
command which she should fulfil immediately after waking. I requested
him to tell her that when she awoke she would come up to me-a foreign
visitor-and ask me to tell her the time by my watch. Leaving her
asleep, we visited two other patients. One was suffering from pro-
gressive locomotor ataxy, with occasional onsets of mania, and much
pain at all times. Dr. Voisin hypnotized her easily, and told me that
he habitually thus procured for her remissions of pain of some hours'
duration. The next case was a woman suffering from" lypemanie
aiguil," acute melancholia., with suicidal tendency. She was much
harder to hypnotize; her eyes wild and restless, and her attention
hard to fix. Dr. Voisin held her head firmly a few inches from his
own and stared fixedly at her for some five minutes. She then fell into
the hypnotic sleep. Dr. Voisin told me that at first a very long time and
very great effort had been necessary in order to hypnotize her. He
considered that after each hypnotization she was quieter, and that the
suicidal tendency was kept in check.
We then returned to the first Bubject, who was still slt'eping pro-
foundly. Dr. Voisin woke her, and she at once came up to me, with a
dazed expression, and asked me what time it was by my watch. I
showed surprise and some offence; but she persisted in a kind of
mechanical way till I had told her the time. The deferred suggestion,
that is to say, worked itself out in the usual way, the subject's state of
mind while obeying it being intermediate between the somnambulic and
the normal condition. As soon as she had obeyed the fOrgotten, but
still operative,command, she seemed quite normal and ran off at once to
her companions.
For my part, I must say that I regard Dr. Voisin's experiments as
a.mong the most interesting of all developments of hypnotism. If
found capable of repetition they will stand at the head of what I may
term sugge8tive therapeutic,.
And here I may call attention to the rapid change which is taking
place in the mode in which hypnotism is being applied as a curative
agent. Until a few years ago there were two main views, which we
have repeatedly discussed in the Proceeding'. The hypnotists proper
believed that the therapeutic results obtained were due wholly to the
nervous change involved in hypnotic trance, however that trance was
induced. The mesmerists proper believed that a. specific effiuence or
influence passed from mesmeriser to subject, and possessed a 'lJitalising
power quite independent of the nervous changes involve4 in the state
of trance.
This question still possesses a very high theoretical interest, and it
is to be hoped that other inquirers may again take it up, and criticise
or corroborate the experiments recorded from time to time in our
Digitized by Google
452 Journal of Society fo;' Psychical Research. plOY., 1886.
Proceeding8, which point towards the mumeric (at present the 16l1li
fashionable) interpretation. Hardly any attention, however, has been
given to this point of late. For the centre of therapeutic interest baa
been shifted in a direction which 'neither Braid nor Elliotson foresaw.
It is not now to the trance per 8e nor to the pB8868 per 8e that we look
mainly for benefit to health. Rather it is to the suggestions made to the
subject by word of mouth during the trance ;-8uggestions which work
themselves out after he awakes, not only so far as they affect 'Volufli4'11
muscles, (as when Dr. Voisin's patient was told to ask me the time,) but
also to a great extent when they affect involuntary muscles; and in-
deed vaso-motor, circulatory, digestive, and nervous processes, within
limits at present very imperfectly known.
It is to Dr. Liebea.ult more than to anyone man that the credit of
this discovery is due. Professors Beaunis and Bernheim have called
effective attention to it during the last three years, and Professor Bern-
heim's book, above cited, is at present the best collection of cases thus
trea.ted.*
But at the head of all these hypnotic suggestions must be placed the
suggestions which have a psychical, a moralising effect; which influence
the "springs of conduct," or supply a kind of "contra-impulsive power"
which aids the subject. to resist a habitual temptation. Here, too, Dt'.
Li~bea.ult was the pioneer; but Dr. Auguste Voisin seems at
present to have obtained the most striking results. I am inclined
to think that this may be due to some efficacy personal to himself;
but that is not Dr. Voisin's own view. He holds that the essential is
patience and perseverance, and that there are many lunatics who
could be hypnotized by an attempt prolonged, as some of his have been,
over several hours. Here he is in accord with Elliotson and
the old English school of mesmerists; and it seems likely enough that
the ease and rapidity with which most subjects are hypnotized in
France may have led operators to neglect some cases where more of
effort and "education" was required.
Be this as it may, there can, I think, be no doubt, that in BOme
cases his hypnotic suggestion has effected a real improvement in the
patient's self-control and sanity of behaviour. And the troubles which
• I am sorry not to have more English names to quote. It seems to me
surprising that so few English physicians have taken part in these new inquiries.
There is some good work-though small in quantity-by Dr. Hack Tuke and
Mr. Langley, but I cannot find out that, except this, anything whatever has
been done of late in England in hypnotic investigation outside the inquiri.
described in our Proceedinga. The article on .. Animal Magnetism" in the new
edition of the E1lCJIclopmdia Britannica does not contain-so far as I can make
out-the record of one siugle original experiment.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.) JO'Urnal Of Society for P8ychical Research. 453
he has thus atta.cked-dipsomania,morphinism, &c._re in themselves so
serious and hard to cure that no pains should be spared to give the new
JDethod a fair trial. I understood from Dr. Voisin that, without of
course guaranteeing any kind of success, he would be willing to make
an attempt on any serious case of this kind which might be placed in
his hands.
Professor Sidgwick said that he wished to make a few remarks on
the important crisis which we had now reached in the history of the
Society, and on the temper in which we ought to meet it.
In a day or two the book which had been for some time announced,
and on which Messrs. Gurney, Myers, and Podmore had been labour-
ing almost from the outset of our career as a society-the PhantasmB
of the Living-would be in the hands of the public. For the first
time, the scientific world would have before it in a complete form the
grounds for the momentous conclusion which his friends some time ago
announced_nd in which he was entirely disposed to concur,-that
the mental state of one person might a.1fect another, otherwise than
through the recognised channels of communication by the senses, and
even at a distance so great as to render a physical mode of communi-
cation very difficult to conceive.
If this conclusion were to be generally accepted and to become a
part of the recognised teaching of modem science, he thought that
even those who were now most opposed to our work would admit that
it was difficult to exaggerate the importance of our achievement. But
he was far from anticipating any such sudden conquest of the scientific
world; on the contrary, though he hoped we might produce a certain
effect, especially on younger and more impressible minds, he did not
doubt that the great majority of scientific men would regard "tele-
pathy" as a wild dream just as confidently after the appearance of our
book as they did before.
In many cases no doubt this result would be reached by the simple
process of paying no attention to our evidence and our reasoning. But
he thought-nd he might say that he Iwped, as an alternative very
preferable to neglect--that there would be not a few who would read
the book and yet remain altogether unconvinced. If anyone thought
this too despondent a view, he would ask him to read the thoughtful
and instructive address by Professor Newcomb, the President of the
American Society for Psychical Research, which appeared in the Pro-
CUdingB of that Society published last July. No one could doubt that
Professor Newcomb had given serious attention with a candid mind to
the evidence which we had 80 far published; a man was not likely to
take the trouble involved in the position he had taken, and incur the
Digitized by Google
4540 JOU1'lU£l of Society for Psychical .Research. [Nov., 1886.
risk of disparaging sneers which he supposed the position carried with
it for a student of physical science in America as well as here, unless
he considered the subject deserving of fair and full attention. And
yet Professor Newcomb's conclusion, as he stated it, after a "critical
and careful study of our work," was that the work of our Society
"has almost entirely removed any ground which might have existed
for beliaving thought-transference a reality" !
The first impreBBion produced on our minds by this verdict, from
the President of the sister-or daughter-Society in the United States,
is inevitably one of disappointment. But Professor Sidgwick hoped that
ha.ving got over our disa.ppointment, we should agree that the right
attitude to take up towards Professor Newcomb, and those who agreed
with him, was that of inviting and cordially welcoming the most severe
and searching criticism that they could produce of the evidence and the
reasonings contained in the Phantasms oftke Li17ing. He did not mean
that we ought to accept s~ch criticism when it did not commend itself
to our minds; but that we should receive it not only without the
slightest heat but without any parti priB, or impulse to defend any
weak places that might be pointed out in our argument. At present~
Professor Newcomb's main ground for rejecting our conclusion appeared
to be of the general and negative kind, from which it was difficult to
.derive much immediate guidance. He objected that we had
AI constructed no theory of thought-transference," no "statement of
general laws, setting forth the conditions under which thought-
transference can be brought about." His own view, Professor Sidgwick
confeBBed, had been that the mere establishment of the fact, the mere
exclusion of all communication through the recognised channels I)f
Bense, was 80 difficult a matter that we had better concentrate attention
~n this at first; otherwise we might find ourselves in the ridiculous
position of spinning an elaborate theory to explain phenomena
supposed to be novel, but really due to known and familiar causes.
Still, he quite admitted that whenever a clear case of thought-
transference was made out, it was of the utmost importance to repeat
and vary the experiments, with a view to the ascertainment of its
conditions; and he hoped this would be bOrne in mind in any fresh
.experiments.
But the most important point, as yet, was to exclude rigorously all
communications through the recognised channels of sense; and it was
here that he hoped Professor Newcomb, and others who shared his
.opinion, would help us with their criticism, and tell us exactly
how, in their view, we could make the experiments more conclusive.
Nor ought we, he considered, to object even to very strained hypotheses
as to the manner in which our results might have been brought about
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.) Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. 455
by natural causes; our conclusion was so improbable, from its
opposition to the general drift of the scientific movement of modern
thought, that it was not unreasonable to embrace even very im-
probable suppositions in order to avoid it. The question would
ultimately be decided by a balance of opposing improbabilities; and
we ought, in his view, patiently to go on accumulating and improving
experiments, and getting spontaneous experiences more freshly and
exactly recorded, till the load of accumulated improbabilities on the
other side became intolerable.
We need not, however, look only at the prospect of antagonistic-he
would not say hostile-criticism. The amount of positive co-operation
that we were receiving was very encouraging. Even from America,
thought-transference p,xperiments of a very promising kind were
recorded; Mr. Myers had brought before us the work in France, and the
last number of our Proceeding, had contained an account of interesting
experiments in Germany. Returning to the cases of spontaneous tele-
pathy, he expressed his opinion that we would not be blamed for want
of care, considering the novel nature of the inquiry. The attack would
be mainly on the recollection of our witnesses; and even in this respect
he thought it would be admitted that we had some strong cases, but
more would be wanted. His view was that if we were right, the
quality of the evidence would certainly be improved in consequence
of the new seriousness which he hoped we should impart to the
subject, and our willingness to take any amount of pains in collecting
fresh evidence while the occurrences themselves were still fresh; and
he would urge us to patience and perseverance in repeating experi-
ments and collecting experiences.
REPLY TO MRS. SIDGWICK.
By H. WBDGWOOD.
Mrs. Sidgwick, who has had three sittings with Mr. Eglinton and
haa seen nothing, has no hesitation in attributing to clever conjuring
those wonderful exhibitions of slate-writing, which have been accepted as
genuine by so many scores of eye-witnesses having the best oppor-
tunities of observation, including among them several specially skilled
in the arts of the conjurer, who went with every expectation of being
able to detect the illusion. This confident assumption of the universal
roguery of the slate-writing medium is mainly founded on the sweeping
rejection of all evidence depending on the unbroken observation of the
Medium during the continuance of the experiment, a clearance which,
in Mrs. Sidgwick's view of the matter, would leave as the only kind
of evidence worthy the attention of the sceptic, such as relates to the
Digitized by Google
456 JO'Urnal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Researc/", [Nov., 1886.
production of writing in a closed receptacle wholly inaccessible to the
Medium. "Attempts to obtain evidence of this kind," says Mra.
Sidgwick (Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, II., p. 333),
" have been constantly made. All these attempts have failed with the
single apparent exception of one of Mr. Wedgwood's, and in this case
there !J8&ms to me a serious flaw in the evidence. Mr. Eglinton saw
the slates at the first seance when nothing occurred, and even if it could
be proved that they had not been tampered with in the interval between
the two seances, I cannot perceive that we have any means of knowing
that a pair was not prepared in imitation and substituted at the second
sitting. It is surely significant that there should be but a singh,
instance of writing in securely closed slates, and that a dubious one."
To the same effect on the previous page she says, "It will be remarked
that all the evidence here presented (with one doubtful exception)
depends on continuous observation, and the same is tnu, 110 jar as I
can learn, of all the evidence published elsewhere." It is surprising that
a person who has paid so much attention to the subject should suppose
that mine was the only recorded instance of writing in securely closed
slates, but how she could have written the passage which I have italicised
above I a.m at a loss to imagine. At the time she wrote it Mrs. Sidgwick
must certainly have been in possession of the clearest testimony to the
production of writing in perfectly closed receptacles in two instances,
through the mediumship of Monck and Slade respectively, the accounts
of which, recorded in the Medium newspaper of the 6th and 27th
October, 1876, I myself sent to her, and she subsequently returned me
the cuttings without a word as to their having come too late for her
criticism.
The first of these extracts is from a letter to the Banner oj Light
written by Mrs. Louisa. Andrews, a well-known writer on matters of
this kind.
She says:-
"During my stay of over two months in the house with [Slade] last
summer I took a folding slate into my bedroom, and with it a screw and
a screwdriver, having previously had screw·holes made in both frames. On
one of the inner sides of this folding slate I wrote a few lines addressed to a
friend in spirit-life, after which I placed a fragment of pencil within, and then
fastened the two leaves securely together. In this condition I took it down-
stairs and placed it on the top of the table at which the Medium was seated.
Almost immediately we heard the scratching BOund made by the pencil in
writing, and after the aWance was over, on opening the slates (which I did not
do in the presence of the Medium, but after returning to my room where I
had left the screwdriver), I found a reply to what I had written, signed with
the Christian name of the spirit I had addressed, whether written by this spirit
or not I cannot say, and any opinion I might form on that point would be
Digitized by Google
Nov.,I886.] Journal of Society fo'l' Psychical Reseft'rch. 457
worthless except to myself. What I know is, that some power caused writing
to be done on the inner aide of a folding slate, which did not leave my
po88e88ion, and which remained firmly screwed together till I mysilif
unfastened it."
It is impo88ible to have clearer tllstimony to the fact of Writillg
produced on B surface entirely inaccessible to the Medium. The
evidence in the case of Monck is not less complete. It is published in
the Medium of the 26th October, 1876, in the form of a. communica-
tion signed with their names and addresses by 10 residents of
Keighley, who thus mutually pledge their credit for ~e truth of their
account.
"We, the undersigned, have just sat a.t a seance held at 39, Devonshire
Street, Keighley [the residence of Mr. Clapham, one of the witnesses]. Dr.
Monck was the medium. By raps we were directed to procure a hammer
and tacks, a.nd Mr. J. Clapham supplied both. Mr. Greenwood Lonsdale
then moistened, and with his handkerchief thoroughly cleaned and dried
both sides of a common deal-framed slate. Six of the company wrote their
initials in ink on the frame. The slate was then held before a full jet of
gas-light, so that all in the room could distinctly see that both sides were
absolutely blank. Dit-ections were next given by the spirit-raps to nail a
piece of board on to the slate, and the board was nailed down, five tacks
being driven to their heads so as to secure it to the frame of the slate, which
lay on the table in view of all the whole time till this was done. Mr. G.
Lonsdale then placed his hands on the boarded top of the slate so as to cover
the entire surface. The gas was turned out for a brief time, and on being
relit the raps said, 'What shall I write 1' A book lay .on the table, lIud
this Mr. J: Clapham opened at a venture at p. 133. We asked for a
quotation from that page. The gas was burning and was put on at full. We
then all distinctly heard the sound of rapid writing for a few seconds on the
covered slate.
"As soon as this ceased Mr. J. Lonsdale removed hill hands, which up to
that moment had not been moved from the time the board had been nailild
on. The board was now forced off in view of us all, and we found on the
surface of the slate beneath it ten parallel lines of very fine distinct writiug
between inverted commas. At the foot was the following: -' P. 133,
Samuel.' The figures 133 were found to be the number of the page in the
book which Mr. Clapham had opened at a venture, and the contents of the
slate were found to be an exact quotation from tha.t particular page. The
first six of the undersigned witne88es then examined and identified their
initials on the frame of the slate."
Wha.t better evidence could be required 1 The account purports
to be written just after the sitting. The facts are of so simple a nature
that they could as well be observed by any ordinary intelligence as by
the most scientific member of the Society for Psychical Research. The
slates, by the plainest inference from the words of the narrative, were
2 G
gitized by (.oogI
4.58 Journal of Society for Psychical &search. [Not'., 1886.
never in the possession of Monck from the commencement of the
experiment, and above all, there was no indication of the matter required
to be written until the slate was securely nailed up.
If the testimony of a scientific witness is entitled to greater weight,
M1'8. Sidgwick must surely be well acquainted with the TnJ7I8Ceft-
dental Physics of Professor Zollner. In that work, at pp. 44 and 198
of the translation by MI'. Ma.ssey are the details of two instances in
which writing was obtained between slates securely bound together, un-
touched by Slade.
"On the evening of the 13th December, 18'17'''''18 ZOllner, .. two alates
were bought by myself, marked, and carefully cleaned. They were then-
a Bplinter from a new slate-pencil having first been put between them-bound
tightly together croBBwise with a string four millimetrea thick. They
were laid on and close to the comer of a table of walnut-wood, which I had
shortly before purchased myself. While now W. Weber, Slade, and I eat
at t,he table, and were busied with magnetio experiments, during which our
six hauds lay on the table, thoBe of Slade being two feet from the slate, very
loud rapping began suddenly to be heard between the untollched slates. When
we Beparated them, there was upon one of them the following words, in nine
lines--"
Again, at p. 198, ..Slade now desiredme to take two of the new slates,to lay
a splinterof slate-penoil between them, and then to seal these two slates firmly
together. I did this after having ..tisfied myself that the slates were per-
fectly clean. The sealing was in four places on the long sides, and now I laid
these slates with the bit of penoil between them on the comer of the card·
table most remote from our hands. The latter we joined over one another
on the table, 80 that Slade's hands were covered by mine, and were thus pre-
vented from moving. Scarcely had this happened when the untouched slates
were raised many times upon one of the edges, whioh was olearly perceived
by us both by the bright light of a candle standing in the middle of the card-
table. Then the two slates laid themselves down again on the card-table in &
somewhat altored poaition, and now writing between the slates began to be
immediately audible, as if with a slate-penoil guided by a firm hand. After
the well-known three tioks had announoed the ootloluaion of the writing, we
sundered our hands, which up to this time had been continually and olosely
joined, olosed the sitting, and betook ourselves with the double slate, which
I had inlmediately seized, to the next room where Herr v. Hoffmann and
his wife awaited us. In presence of these persons the slates shortly before
sealed by me were opened. BotA sides were completely written over in
E~lish. " Then follows the paaaage written, consisting of 147 worda.
I will add, on acoount of the clearness and conciseness with which
it is told, one instance of writing between sorewed slates from the
evidence oollected by Mr. Eglinton and published in Ltght of
16th Ootober, 1886, p. 495.
.. On one oooasion, having purchased two slates aimilar to thoee you
generally use, I took them home and thoroughly oleansed them. I then
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.]. JO'Ul-na/, of Society for Psychical Research. 459
screwed the frames together after inserting a small piece of pencil. At my
nen aMnce you then held the two slates 80 futened by one comer; my
mter held the opposite comer. After a abort space of time the BOund of
writing wu distinctly audible, and on unacrewing the alatea with a &Crew-
driver which I had brought with me, the worda 'This is true' were found
written on that part of the slate furthest from yoU.-GEORGE SEYMOUR,
41, St. Augustine's Road, Camden Town.to
Another perfectly clear account of writing produced between a pair
of hinged slates padlocked together is given in the same collection, p. 492.
With so ma.ny authentic records of writing between etrectually closed
slates I should not have thought it worth while to defend the reliability
of my own evidence 011 the subject, except for the purpose of showing
to what straits Mrs. Sidgwick is driven in order to avoid the etrect of
evidence opposed to her prejudices. The suggestion that the slates might
have been tampered with while reposing in my cupboard between the
two sittings seems to me simply absurd. It is incredible that Eglinton
should subject himself to the indignant rebutrwhich he would meet with
in nine cases out of ten if he were to go to any respectable house and
offer to bribe the servants to give him access to some packet in their
master's keeping, of which of course they would know nothing. And if
he failed he would infallibly be denounced to the person he was taking
80 much trouble to deceive, a.nd would irretrievably ruin his own
character.
The only other suggestion of a weak point in my testimony is the
supposition that Eglinton, at the hasty glance at the slates which he
had at the first sitting, was able to fix every particular so firmly in his
memory that two months afterwards, when I applied for a second
sitting, he was able to prepare a pair in exact imitation, and to foist
them upon me in exchange for my own as we sat opposite each other
at the second sitting. When I left after the first sitting, he had no
reason to suppose that I should make a second attempt, for I had no
thoughts of doing so until I wrote for a second appointment. So he
had no reason to attend minutely to the aspect of the slates. As it
happened, they were a pair of old shopkeepers which I had bought at
the nearest news-shop, of an uncommon size and pattern, and he might
have gone to fifty shops without being able to find a similar pair. Then
he must have recollected my seal, which he had seen on no other occ&-
sion, sufficiently to have a counterfeit made exact enough to baffle my
observation. And after all this trouble and expense he would have
found that I had added the precaution of the fastening with gummed
paper, which would have rendered his preparations worthless! Even if he
had known that I was going to gum them up, it might have been done in
such an infinite variety of ways, wish this kind of paper or that (it was
.i.G2
Digitized by Loogle
460 Jourrwl of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1886.
not done with postage paper), with a broad margin or a narrow one.
whether covering the seals or leaving them exposed, and so forth, that
it would have been a perfect miracle if he had hit on so exact an
identity with my slates as to deceive my eye at a time when I had the
most vivid recollection of my own studied preparations. He never could
have run the risk of my almost certain discovery of the fraud. I could
not be mistaken as to the individual peculiarities of my own handiwork.
and I can aver with complete assurance that the slates on which I
obtained the writing were the very pair I prepared for the experiment.
I have confined my remarks to the single case of writing obtained
in a securely closed receptacle, because, as Mrs. Sidgwick avows, that
is the only quarter in which her mind is open to evidence for the
genuineness of the writing. Effectual precautions for excluding all
possibility of access to the interior of the slates during the continuance
of the experiment are easily devised, and the observance of them made
manifest to the witnesses. When in the face of such precautions
writing is obtained, the personal character of the Medium obviously
becomes an irrelevant element in the evidence of the transaction, and
therefore, if all tha.t is alleged agninst the Mediums by Professor and
Mrs. Sidgwick were firmly established, it would not tend in the least to
invalidate the evidence in the instances above-cited, where writing was
produced upon closed slates, under conditions which made the physical
agency of the Medium clearly impossible.
I do not, of course, expect to make any impression on prejudices
like those avowed by Mrs. Sidgwick. "I can hardly imagine," she
says, "being myself convinced that it [Mr. Eglinton's writing] was
genuine, except by * * * the testimony of thoroughly competent
and trustworthy witnesses that in several cases it had been produced
under circumstances which dispensed with the necessity of continuous
observation." If I supplied her with 20 such cases, she would probably
find that nothing under 30 would serve her turn; but my object is to
show to the bulk of the Society, by a few concise specimens, that there
is no such dearth as Mrs. Sidgwick supposes, of the very class of evidence
which she calls for as ideally conclusive.
THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE JOUR....YAL.
The second volume of the Journal will end with December, and a
title-page and index will be issued with the January number. Covers
will also be ready about the middle of January, and may be purchased
at lB. each. Application to be made to the AssistarrtrSecretary,
14, Dean's Ya.rd, S.W.
gitized by (.oogI
Noy., 1886.] Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 461
ON THE REPORTS, PRINTED IN THE JOURNAL FOR JUNE,
OF SITl'INGS WITH MR. EGLINTON.
(Continued.)
By RICHARD HODGSON.
From this brief consideration of Mr. Davey's accounts published in
Light, let us pass to a brief comparison of the main points of these with
the corresponding passages in his later reports.
Taking the sitting of June 30th, we read in his earlier account :-
1. I procured two ordinary slates at a stationer~s shop.
2. These did not leave my poBSeBBion during the aN.nee.
3. But the beat test of all was when I put a crumb of pencil on the
slate, and then put another slate over that; holding the two
slates together myself, I then asked if I should ever become a
medium. [In reply to which he obtained a long JIleIJI&ge.]
In his later account he tells us :-
1. That Mr. Davey and Mr. Munro "bought four slates"-from
which. with the statement above, I infer that Mr. Munro pro-
cured two.
2. That the sitting began by Eglinton's holding one of the bought
slates alone under the table, Mr. Davey's hands being engaged
on one side by Eglinton, and on the other by Mr. Munro.
3. That the slates in connection with which the long meuage was
obtained were unquestionably Eglinton's, and were used in
consequence of a supposed" occult" injunction.
In this later account, we may also notice that the subject of the
long message is not given, and though we are told that it was a com-
plete reply to Mr. Davey'S query, we are not told what the query was;
nor are we told that Mr. Davey had made the acquaintance of Eglinton
previous to the day of the sitting. The information as to these pointa
which the earlier account affords us enables us to see at once how easy
the previous preparation of the long message may have been. In eM
Ii1M of 'Ail comparVon it ,6e?JU clear tlKU accounts in which 1M
apfJtarflincc of a long f'1IU8Qge in reply to Bom8 ~ quution u
ducribed in general twrmB, are not to be asBtMMCl as good ~ that
pre-ort'MIUmnmt tmB tA8rUJy p7'8cl'lllfWl.
Further, while there are many details in the later account not found
in the earlier one, indications are not wanting that some of these
details are due to Mr. Davey's imagination. Thus his description of
what he AtMd, in connection with the long message, plainly shows, to
any person who has made experiments in loca.lising the sound as of
writing, not merely that he has unduly embodied in his report a very
large amount of inference, but that he has actually embodied in his
account of what he experienced before the long message was seen,
certain imaginations which came GjUr it was seen.
Digitized by Google
462 Journal of Society for Psychical &search. [Nov., 1886.
We could distinctly hear it travelling over the surface until it arrived at
the end of the slate, and then I waa puzzled to hear it again commence ..
though from the top. .
Mr. Davey's earlier account exhibits throughout, on the face of it,
such an absurd negligence of the" conditions" of the sitting that I
cannot place any reliance upon his later description of specific precau-
tions which he probably only afterwards inferred that he must have
taken, his conjectures becoming interwoven with his true remembrances
beyond the possibility of disentanglement. If any of my readers are
under the misapprehension tha.t confusions of this kind are not possible
in the case of a bond,fide witness, I would remind them of the incident
of the officer and the Hindoo juggler, which I recounted in the last
number of the Journal. Mr. Davey writes, for example :-
I was, however, by no means eatiafied, and I requested permission to be
allowed to hold the slate with my own hand against the table.
This is perhaps a transfiguration of a suggestion from Eglinton
that Mr. Davey should assist in holding the slate, upon which the word
or words had a.lready been surreptitiously written; though even were
the statement strictly correct, the writing by ordinary means would not
have been precluded. It is obvious that Mr. Davey was still, when
writing the later account, under the impression" that the writing, as a
matter of course, takes place wl.en tM BOUnd of writing is l.eard"; for
he says:-
During the movement of the pencil, I used my beat endeavours to notice
any movementof the medium's hand, and entirely failed to detect anything.*
This misconception may have exercised a vitiating influence through-
out much of his report. For instance, after describing a careful examin·
ation of two slates by Mr. Munro and himself, he says:-
we placed the two slates in exact juxtaposition. They were then held above
the table by the medium and myself, and having placed a small grain of
pencil between them, I abruptly asked for the figure 9 to be written.
Instantly we heard a scratching noise and three sharp taps, and on remo,·ing
the slates we found a large figure 9 written on the slate.
Considering Mr. Davey'S views at that time concerning the relation
• It is an important fact,-from whatever convulsions Eglinton may
suffer during the sitting, particularly those convulsions which, to use the
words of X-- (p. 435), "move the slate about too much"; and whatever
other "suspicious" circumstances happen, such as the dropping of the slate on
the floor, or the hringing of more than one slate into use at the same time, or
the frequent withdrawal or uncoveringof a slate, upon his own initiation ;-that
yet, wJtel~ the sound as of writing is distinctly audible, Eglin1on's passhity is
unimpeachable, as regards at least the noticeable ~rtioD8 of his organism. Ai
other times much concentration is not desirable, It interferes witli the .. phe.
nomena"; but then, the sitters lIlay focus their attention as much as the,-
I'leaae. especially upon the \isible parts of the slate and Eglinton's hands, and
the .. phenomena" proceed just as well, if not better.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.] Journal of Society for Psychical &8earch. 463
between the BOund a.s of writing, and the actual production of the
writing, we IIl8.y suppose that his" abrupt" asking might have been the
aecond time of asking; the slates might have been under the table at the
first time of a.sking ; but a.s Mr. Davey heard no sound as of writing,
of course the writing was not being produced ; and the circumstance of
the slates' having been under the table, as it had no significance
from his point of view, lapsed from his recollection, either temporarily
or entirely. We may suppose that after the first time of a.sking, the
slates being held under the table, Eglinton wrote a 9 on the under
surface of the bottom slate; that shortly afterwards, placing the slates
upon the table and removing the upper slate on the pretence of seeing
whether any" writing had come," he used the opportunity, in placing
the slates together again, to reverse the positions of the slates,
putting the previously under slate over the other; he then
turned both slates together so that the originally under slate
became again the under one; and as he did so he asked Mr. Davey, this
being a convenient reallOn for his lifting the slates, to hold them also,
and repeat his request; whereupon Eglinton produced a sound as of
writing, &c., the top slate was removed, and on the upper surface of the
bottom slate of course the figure 9 wa.s found.
In the la.st ,. experiment" of which Mr. Davey offers any details,
(I then cleaned one of my own slates, and when the medium was out of
the room 1 wrote the name of a decell.lled relative upon same. I then put
the slate against the flap of the table in such a manner that it would have
been utterly impossible for Eglinton to have seen what was written.
When he returned I requested an answer to my question. I myself held
the slate against the table, and no one else but myself knew what I had
written. The usual sound of writing commenced, and un removing the
slate I found the following answer: .. Your uncle A " (giving the correct
Christian name) " is not present."
Now it was utterly impoBBible for Mr. Eglinton to have seen what 1 had
written, &C.),
the slate was probably held part of the time by Eglinton alone
(who read and answered the question in this interval), notwith-
standing Mr. Davey's statement: "I myself held the slate against the
table" (as he may have done while the sound as of writing was audible),
and his assumption that Eglinton was unable to discover "by any
ordinary agency" what he had written. The incident may be compared
with one described by Miss Symons (p. 313), who says similarly-
1 am certain that by no possible means could he have obtained so much
as a glance at the written question. *
* Yet, apart from otli& possibilities, the question might have been read in
this case with the help of a small mirror, e,'en while the slate remained writing
downwards,-a methOd which, as I learn, had never occurred to MiBB Symons. I
do not think, however, that Eglinton used this method in either case.
gitized by (.oogI
464 Journal of Society for Psychietd Research. [Nov., 1886..
Mr. Davey writes perhaps more confidently than Miss Symons,
and similar extravagant assertions about impossibilities meet us in
many other reports of sittings with Eglinton. I think we may say that
when these express the opinion of a capable general conjurer, they merit
some attention; when they express the opinion of a capable general
conjurer who is also a special expert in "slate-writing," they merit
most serious attention; but when they express the opinion of an
unskilled observer who is manifestly unaware of the difficulties either
of continuous observation or of accurate recollection, they deserve
almost no attention at all.
Note, in Mr. Davey's description of this incident, his reference to
the fact that eM medium went out of tM room. This is not mentioned
in his earlier account, and he mentions it in his later one apparently
only for the purpose of showing what a splendid opportunity he-not
Eglinton-took advantage of, to write some words upon the slate
without their being seen by any other person. We cannot feel sure,
after this, that Eglinton did not leave the room more than once,
and that he may not have used the opportunity to substitute, for
clean slates, other slates already previously written upon, or written
upon there and then by himself while he was outside j and such
a hypothesis would find some corroboration in Mr. Munro's recol-
lection (p. 439) that·, once or twice in the middle of the seance Mr.
Eglinton had to leave the room to attend to someone at the door." He
may also have dropped a slate on the fioor once or twioe, perhaps the
very slate on which Mr. Davey had written the question about his
relative, as he dropped one in the ease described by Mr. Harold
Murray (p. 297), and shortly afterwards indicated by his language
that he had acquired, as Mr. Murray apparently thought, and as
Mr. Lewis explicitly suggests (p. 372), "a little useful knowledge
without the cognisance of the spectators." What are we to think of
the testimony of a witness of performances like those at issue, when in
one of his accounts he omits to record a fact of such cardinal
importance as that the chief performer left the room during the sitting,
and in the other account, barely and only incidentally records it f
What scientific value can we attach to his investigation of "occult"
phenomena in a case where the chief possibility to be excluded is
confessedly the possibility of conjuring 1 Ij, now, I should find it
necessary, in order to explain some particular incident, to suppose that
Eglinton kft tlUJ room during its course, although eM witness nevtr
refers to such an event in his report, could my assumption be regardtd
rightly as ahsurd 1 Could it be maintained, without introducing special
considerations, that the licence which I so allowed myself was utterly
unwarrantable 1
gitized by (.oogI
Nov., 1886.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 465
Let us now turn to his report of the sitting of October 9th, sent to
the Society. In the account in Light Mr. Davey says :-
Questions, often beyond the knowledge of the Dledium, were asked, and
the answers received on a IIID&Il folding slate I had brought for the purpose.
In the later report he writes :-
X-- having brought a folding slate we commenced our experiments with
this.
And X-- himself says, in his letter to Mr. Davey of November
2nd, 1884, (p 436) :-
Our questions were far too general the other day, and could have been
answered by anyone, if they had the power of writing.
In these experiments, and also in the experiments with the coloured
crayons, and with the locked slate, &c., we need not suppose that the
slates were held above the table, or by the medium and one of the
sitters, during the whole time of the experiment. It may be inferred
that when Mr. Davey wrote that the answers were obtained under such
conditions, he was taking for granted that the answers were being
written while the sound as of writing was distinctly audible. That
the slates were under the table much more than is directly stated in
Mr. Davey's reports,would appear from the contemporary letter written
by X- (p. 435).
The placing the slates beneath the table at allseema to me the worst part
in the matter. For what object are they placed beneath the table 1 There-
fore, see that all yourcommunications take place from the first in view of all.
Putting these considerations together, it seems not improbable that
what occurred may have been somewhat as follows. After Mr. Davey
had written a question in the locked slate, it was held under the table
by Eglinton and the answer written by him; Eglinton then placed it
upon the table, and suggested that Mr. Davey should unlock it and hold
the edges just far enough apart to allow him to drop an inked pencil
grain within, that the test might be more satisfactory in case any writing
should "come"; Eglinton then seized an inked pencil grain, having
taken care that it should be already worn, and gave it to Mr. Davey to
insert; the locked slate may have remained thenceforward above the
table. The mult of Mr. Davey's description of the incident* would, on
this supposition, be mainly simple omission.
In the later account of the long message I observe a phrase which
• There is only one writing in the locked slate described in the later re~rt.
In his account published in Light Mr. Davey says: II Between the famous slate
presented to Mr. Eglinton by a distinguished personage, with a strong Brahm.
lock, securely fastened by myself, we obtained meas&gu in the well·known
handwriting of Joey."
Digitized by Google
466 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.,l88&.
strengthens the supposition which I made in the Joumal for October,
that Mr. Davey's request was suggested by Eglinton. He writes:-
I suggested a long answer to be written in reply to my query that it
should be _thing of illterut and I also said under these conditions I should
like BOme Greek.
We cannot lay any stress upon Mr. Munro's recent statement
(p. 439), written so long after the event:
Previous to Mr. Davey's asking for BOme Greek writing Mr. Eglinton bad
been telling us of a long Greek meaaage he bad recoived at another ~ce ;
but compare Mr. Davey's phrase with that of Mr. Harold Murray in
another instance (p. 297) :
Two slates held on upper surface of table. Mr. Eglintot~ tuked Jor _
communication of interut. The slate was filled with writing in leBII than one
and a·half minutes.
Further, there is a slight, but especially noteworthy, difference of
expression in Mr. Davey's two accounts in referring to the same time-
interval. I might have pointed out, in comparing his reports of
the sitting of June 30th, that we may not be justified in interpret-
ing the expressions of witnesses very strictly in the face of Mr.
Davey'S use of the words "a few seconds" in his earlier account,
and "upwards of a minute" in his later account, with reference to the
same interval, the time during which he heard the sound as of writing
the long message; and it should be noticed that whereas in his later
report of the sitting of October 9th he wrote that after the slate was
held in position" INSTANTLY the sound of writing became audible" (the
word I instantly' being doubly underlined in the original IISS.), he
wrote in his earlier report: "Scarcely a minute elapsed before the
pencil began to move." It should also be noticed that whereas in this
earlier report Mr. Da.vey's question appears in the order of events ajttw
the slate was placed in position, in the later report it appears before.
These discrepancies, I think, sufficiently show how eCUJily Bome of 1M.
events ofa Bitting may become transpoBed, and Iww rapidly an a~
ble and perhapB important time-interval may dwindle out of recolledion;
and we may venture to I,eaitate before accepting the remembra.1lce of a
witne88, et'en when doubly emphasised, tIme the BOUnd as of writing
followed immediately after the placing in position oftl66 Blate.
I may now leave a more prolonged comparison of these reports to
the reader himself, who may, e.g., find it not easy to discover, in the
later report, an instance described with special emphasis in the earlier
one, and upon which I commented in the Journal for October, p. 430 ;
he will then not be surprised to learn, as I have just learnt myself, in
a letter received from Mr. Davey in reply to my inquiry, that the
Digitized by Google
Nov•• 1886.] JO'Urnal of 80ciety for Psychical Research. 467
notes (referred to on p. 431) from which his reports were macie, "werp
very short and were merely copies of the messages if I rememllE'r
rightly with just one or two little items."
To the mistakes, then, of fundamental importance, which werp
forced upon our notice by a comparison of the independent accounts
given by different observers of the same sitting, we have found
parallels in the mistakes which appear from a comparison of the
different accounts given by the same observer; not merely minor
mistakes, of transposition, transfiguration, &c., including the mis-
calculation of time-intervals, but mistakes which involve the most
serious and flagrant and complete omissions of events which were
certainly not unobserved at the time by the witnesses, and the descrip-
tions of which, for the discerning reader, afford obvious clues to thp
periornlance of the tricks.
(To be continued.)
THE CHARGES AGAINST MR. EGLINTON.
In the Jemrllal for June, I prefaced a collection of na.rratives of slate-
writing phenomena witnellll8d in the presence of Mr. Eglinton, with accounts
of two incidents in his career, which appeared to me to justify us in regarding
him as &Il impostor with BOme years' practice. Mr. Eglinton's reply-such as
it ill-to these chargea, has recently been publiBhed in the apiritualiBtic
journal Light. ThiB reply need not be repeated here, as it hu, I underst&nd,
been Bent to all Members &Ild A880ciateB of the Society for Psychical
Reeearch ; but I think it deairable to call attention to one or two points in
it which might miBlead unwary readers.
Firat, as regards the muslin &Ild false beard worn by the figure represent-
ing .. Abdullah," and subsequently found in Mr. Eglinton's portm&llteau, he
stateB that" the Council of the late British National ASlOCiation of Spirit-
ualiBts dismiBaed the matter as insufficiently attested," and givea as his
authority for thiB statement &Il editorial article in Light for July 17th of the
present year ; which article again givea no authority except the recollection
of certain members (UDl1&1l1ed) of the Council of the B. N. A. S.
If, however, we tum to the reports of the Council meetings at which
the subject was diBcu88ed, (which are given in the Spirit1udW for December
27th, 1878, &Ild January 17th, February 14th, &Ild March 21st, 1879; &Ild
in Spiritual Note. for April &Ild May, 1879), we find that they do not confirm
this recollection.
A1"chdeacon Colley brought two charges against Mr. Eglinton in the
letters from which I quoted in June; the one relating to the beard &Ild
muslin, from hiB own knowledge; &Ild the other on hearsay evidence only,
to the effect that Mr. Eglinton had "on one notable occasion kept dark by
the authorities," been " detected dreaaed up &Ild playing ghost" at a
ae&llce held on the premiBes of the B.N.A.S. This, Mr. Colley said he had
learnt from a well-known member of the B.N.A.S. &Ild from the wife of a
Digitized by Google
468 Journal of Society for Psyckical .Reaea·relt. [NOY.,l886.
very active member. It W88 what Mr. Desmond FitzGerald characterUed ..
"an imputation of a dillgraceful character" against the authorities of the
.Association, of hushing up an exposure made at one of their own IIMncea,
that cauaed the Council to take the matter up.
Their inquiries resulted in the corroboration of the fim charge-that
made by Archdeacon Colley from his own knowledge-by drawing out the
additional testimony of Mr. Owen Harries, in whose house the diacovery of
the beard anti muslin took place.
It does not appear from the report of the Council meetings that the
aecond charge against Mr. Eglinton-the one made on hearsay eviden_
was either proved or disproved, and I accordingly made no allusion to it in
the Jemrnal for June.
As to the imputation against the" authoriti8l0f the Auociation," however,
Archdeacon Colley admitted that he had made a mistake in 10 deacribing the
personl to whom he had referred, and the whole lubject was then allowed to
drop. It is doubtl811 a confusion between theBe various charg_two agaiDat
Mr. Eglinton, and one against the authorities of the .Aseociation-wbich baa
produced on the unnamed members of the Council of the B.N. A.S. the
erroneous impre8lion that the chargeof which I gave the details, broke down.
There is, then, clear positi,·e evidence that Mr. Eglinton produced sham
phenomena in 1876.
I now turn to what is known u the Vegtl incident, which alI'om. atzoDg
presumptive evidence that he was ltill producing lham phenomena in 1882.
I observe that when Mr. Eglinton has occaaion to refer tb the Vegra
inoident he ignorel the fact that hil letter was alleged to have gone round b:r
Bombay where Madame Blavatlky was, and the very important and IU8piciou
part played by her in the tranaaction. Yet this confederacy with Madame
Blavataky (and I may observe that it is quite unneC8llllary-Mr. Eglinton'.
luggestion to the contrary notwithstanding-to suppose confederacy in the
matter between him and anyone but Madame Blavataky) is in itself aImo.t
enough to diacredit the whole phenomenon. When to this is added the
equally sU8picious nature of Mr. Eglinton'l own proceedinga in substitutmg
for the envelope marked by Mrs. B. one di1ferently marked by himself, we
can hardly say that there remains any room for .doubt. Mr. Eglinton tries
to persuade U8 that the chances were millions to one against the lady on the
VegrJ, Mrs. B., making the mark he wanted, and that it is therefore absurd to
IUppose that on the hypothesis of pre-arrangement he would have applied
to her at all. But that this is not 80 is shown by what actually occurred.
The mark required, to make the letter Ihown on the Vega apparently corre-
lpond with thoBe whioh fell at Bombay and at Howrab, was three Cl'OIIIeII in
a row on the ftap of the envelope. Mr. Eglinton made one Cl"08I before
asking Mrs. B. to make a mark. This first Oroll wu not, as it aeema to
me, at all unlikely to suggelt to Mrs. B. to make another near it, and I am
confirmed in this view by the fact that she actually did make another. H.
instead of making it on the top of Mr. Eglinton's. she had made it at the
aide, he need only have added a third in her presence to produce a teat
which, though careful investigation would have revealed its weakneu, would
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.] JOUlI'ywl of Society for PsychicltZ Resea,rch. 469
probably have appeared ftawl6111 to nine reade1'8 out of ten. But it did not
much matter to Mr. Eglinton whether Ml'B. B. made me right mark or
uot. To- ask her to make one W88 the eaaieat way of aatisfying Ml'B.
Gordon, and he muat by experience have known Spiritualists well
enough to be aware that he was playing a game in which he might win, and
could not materially lOBe, 80 far as their support was concerned. If he was
honestly deairoua that the envelope should he lUarked according to M1'8. B.'s
independent wish, why, after he had destroyed the one marked by her-a
proceeding for which inconsistent reasons have been given,-did he not at
least mark the second in the earne way in which shc had marked the fi1'8t 1
" Incapacity to unde1'8tand the important element of test conditions" has
been urged on his behalf; but I cannot myself think that his intelligence is
aa much below the average as this would imply in the case of Buch simple teat
conditions as are here involved.
Mr. Eglinton only appeals further to the absence of aaaignable motive to
induce him to arrange a phenomenon of the kind. It 8C8roely needs pointing
out that if the prospect of obtaining with Spiritualists and Theosophists the
credit which he actually did obtain were too feeble a motive, Madame
Blavataky may well have had the means of Bupplementing it.
I have returned to this Bubject, and brought out these varioua points,
because it seems to me very important ; that on the one hand, charges of
imposture should never be made against mediumB without evidence inde-
pendent of the marvellous nature of the alleged phenomena; and that on the
other hand, when there is evidence of imposture it should be made widely
known. If there have ever been genuine physical mediumistic phenomena,
Spiritualists have done immense injury to their cause by hushing up C&8es of
exposed deception, and thus, as well as by lax methods of investigation,
encouraging ita repetition.
I may, in conclusion, remark that I have read with care the evidence
brought forward by Mr. Eglinton about his slate-writing. None of itappeara
to me to differ in eaaential characteristics from that wqich was printed in the
Journal for June; and no more than that, thorefore, does it exclude the
hypothesis of conjuring.
EUANOR MlLDUD SIDGWICK.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL 01' THE SOCIlIlTY I'OR PSYCHICAL RESEAltCH.
Sm,-AB .. M.A. (Oxon.)" has publicly, though quite courteously,
questioned the accuracy of a statement which I made in a foot-note to my
paper on the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism (ProceedingB X. p. 66),
to the effect that he &886rted the entertainment of Maskelyne and Cook to
be mediumiBtic, I think I ought to quote the pasaage on which I founded
the statement. It is in a letter to the Mtdium and Daybreak of AuguBt
~th, 1877, which is headed "Conjuring, pl'UB Mediumistic Phenomena,"
and signed .. M.A. (Oxon.)," and it runs as follows :-" I am glad to Bee
that Mr. Alfred Wallace agrees, after seeing Lynn'B medium, with the
substance of my letter in your isBue of July 6th. Given mediumahip and
Digitized by Google
470 JOUl'lutl of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [Nov., I88&.
&hamelell8nell8 enough 80 to prostitute it, ~nd conjuring can, no doubt,
be made sufficiently bewildering. It is &hear nonsense to treat such per-
fonnances 88 Maskelyne's, Lynn's, and some that have been shown at the
Crystal Palace, 88 'common conjuring.' Mr. Wallace positively says •H
you think it is all juggling, point out exactly where the dift'erence lies
between it and mediumistic phenomena."'-I am, &c.,
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWIcx.
To tAe Editor of tAe JOURNA.L 011' THB SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RBSBA.BCB.
DBAR SIB,-Thougb you do not choose to admit a letter of mine to the
Jo"mal because of its previous Appearance* in Light, yet, perhaps, you
will publish the following few sentences from it with regard to the criticiam
of aMnce reports in your last illBue :-" I might more or lell8 enlighten Mr.
Hodgson upon several of the points he has touched upon in my own notes of
~'IJlcea. But I wish only to say in this matter that imperfections "-such as
of coincidental observation-" in any report do not neceasarilyinva.lidate the
facts related. H two or three newspaper reporters write an account of a
street accident,their reapectivecolulDDs will probably show some discrepancies,
arising from varied insight, position, &c., though the public will not gather
.therefrom that the street accident W88 probably a street play.... . In
case my reference 88 above to Mr. Hodgson's enlightenment is thought to be
too general, I add one explanation only, and this with regard to the incident
of Mr. Eglinton's copy of a drawing on a transparent, child's, or toy slate.
Mr. Hodgson seems to have overlooked the fact that any kind of drawing,
under the circumstances, W88 much more than the ordinary writing. He
may think that, with practice and legerdemain, he could in time himself
write, say some chance trisyllable, on a slate under the table without
an obeerver's notice--a matter involving no "direct vision," i.e.,
involving no sight of the slate by the medium whilst writing ; but he muat
acknowledge that it would be-with the same conditions of table and slate-a
different thing, on the immediate suggestion of two close observers, to recopy
or .. trace," unnotice<l, in red chalk, the first syllable of the word just
fortuitously written. To trace over any few lines or figure, it would be
necessary that for a few seconds the medium's eyes be directed both to the
position of the syllable on the slate and to the point of his pencil. If the
result, 88 in Mr. Eglinton's C&8e. W88 the obtaining (not attaining as
misprinted) of a portion of a drawing, .. f'Ot~hly but correctly made,"
without Mr. Smith's and my own knowledge. any further strong 8888rtion
remains justified.
I am, Sir, yours obediently,
39, Rue Gabrielle, Montmartre, Paris.
7th N01JM1Iber, 1886,
J. MUlUI.AY TBMPLET()N.
• I had already explained to Mr. Tem~leton, a ~ of a previous letter,
that I thought it best to adhere to the ordinary rule In such mAtters, and not to
print,88 correspondence addressed to the Editor of this Journal, letters which had
been previously publiBhed elsewhere. On his sending me the letter to which he
now refers, I reminded him of tbe rule, but added thil.t he of course had a right
of reply to any remarks relating to himaelf and his evidence which Iiad
appeared in these pages.-ED.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1886.] J01J/t'nal Of Society for Psychical Research. 471
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THB SOCIBTY FOR PIIYCBICAL RUBARCH.
I>BAR SIR,-As an Associate of the Society for Psychical Research I
should much like tc help on its investigations, for which I have, I think,
some slight aptitude, but am withheld from doing so by the following con-
siderations, which I should be glad to see discussed by other members of the
Society for Psychical Resea.rch:-
Experiments in telepathy, automatic writing, &c., &ll require the will of
the percipient to be, so to speak, annulled for the time, and the mind lelt
blank, so that it may be invaded either by the influence of the mind of the
agent, or by the sub-conscious memory, personality, or whatever it may be,
of the percipient himself.
Now, though we have had no irrefragable elridetlC6 that intelligences other
than human, or rather other than those of living people, can invade the mind
voluntarily left blank in this way, yet it seems to me that it would not be wise
to leave this pouibility out 01 account, in venturing into such an unknown
region. We should not think it wise to &llow ourselves to be mesmerised by
persons of known bad character: can WI! be BUre, that by making our minds
blank and abnegating our willa, we do not lay ourselves open to be aft'ected
by disembodied spirits, whom we should not at &ll have wished to influence
us in life 1 Some who believe in such influences more than we see at present
reason to do, hold the theory that steady activity of will is a defence against
them, while pauivity of will invites them: and there seems something
rational in inclining to act upon this hypothesis in our present condition of
ignorance j just &B if being shipwrecked in the dark upon an unknown
island, of which we were ignorant whether it W&B desert or inhabited by
friendly or hostile tribes, we should be wise to put ourselves on the defensive.
The hypothesis that such influences, if they exist, would not neceuarily
make themselves known to our consciousneBB, is, I think, borne out by Mr.
Myers' experiments in hypnotic suggestion, where the suggestion made from
without appeared to the person under experiment to be from within. Bis
experiments alao seem to show that even in this case a sub-conscious
resistance is almost invariably found to any practic&lly undesirable suggestion
made by the experiments, when the subject is a rational and self-controlled
person. Is it impoaaible that some of the impulses which we take for granted
come from our hereditary kinship with animals should really be thus
impressed upon us from without 1-Yours faithfully,
November 7th, 1886. M. B.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The fdlowifll} additiooB have bun made duriflg the llUt three months.
FOOTSTBPS OF SPIlUT8. A Collection of well authenticated
Stories ..................................................................London, N.D.
HARB (Dr. Robert) Experimental Investigation j the Spirit Mani-
festations............................................................New York, 1855
OLIPHANT (Laurence) Muollam : A Problem of the Period. A Novel.
3 vola.....................................................................London, 1886*
Digitized by Google
[R]
472 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.,188&.
PluNTASlII8 OF THE LIVING. By Edmund Gurney, M.A.; Frederic
W. H. Mye1'8, M.A.; Ilnd Frank Podmore, M.A. 2 vola. Lalldon, 1886
TOLSTOI (Leon) What I believe. From the Ruaaian by Constantine
Popoff ..................................................................Londofl, 1885t
ALLIOT (Dr. Eugene) La Suggestion Mentale ........................Pan., 1886§
BERNHEI1I (Dr.) De la Suggestion. et de 8eB applications a la
BRU=rlli~iJ:ephjc~~~id~~ti~~·G~~~~~·~~·i;Et;.tHYP~~:;~ 1886
Nancy. 1886§
CHAZARAIN (Dr.) Decouverte de la Polarit6 Humaine...............Pan., 1886
DuRVILLB (II.) Traitcl Exptlrimental et TMrapeutique de Magn6tisme
Pan., 1886
.Tu8SlBu (A. L. de) Rapport du l'un des commissaires charges par Ie
Roi de l'examen du Magn6tisme Animal ........................Pan., 17M
REvuE MAGNETIQtTE (NOB. 1·23)..........................................PariIJ.l8U-6
APELLA (Dr. J.) Zur medicinischen Statistik........................Berlin, 1886t
BRUCHSTUCKE aus dem Leben eines sud·deutschen Theologen Leipzig, 1875
GEISTER und Gespenster in einer Rcihe von Erzahlungen dargestellt.
2 vola. (bound in onu) ................................................Ba.tU, 1810
HANAK (Dr. Michael) Geschichte eines natiirlichen Somnambulismus
aus dem Lateinischen iibe1'8etzt von M. H...................Leipzig, 1833
J OLLER (M. ) Dlll'Btellung selbsterlebter mystischer Erscheinungeo
Zurich. 1863
LEESER (J.) Herr Profcssor Wundt und der Spiritismus..........Leipzig. 1879
POVINSKI (Adolf, Graf) Ueber den Verkehr der Geister des Jenseita
mit den Menschen ...................................................Leipzig, 1870
PSYCHE. Deutsche Zeitschrift fiir Odwissenschaft und Geisterkunde.
9 NOB. ••...........•..........•..............•.•.............•....G1-olllttahain.I865-6
PuSCH (Lucian) Spiritualistische PhilO8Ophie ist erweiterto Reslismus
Leipzig, N.D.t
REICHENBACH (Dr. K. Freiherr von) Odische Begebenheiten zu
Berlin in den Jahren 1861 und 1862..............................Beriin, 1862
- - - Die Odische Lohe und einige Beweguogseracheinuogeo
ViemUl. 1867
SCH~::t!:h~ (~~:..~~~..~:~..~~~~~~~~~...~~...~~~~~ 1853
STERNE (Carns) Die Wahrsagung aus den Bewegungen lebloser
Korper unter dem Einflu88e der MenschIichen Band...... Weimar, 1862
- - - Die Naturgeschichte der Gespenster .................. Weimar, 1863
WUNDT (ProfeBBOr W.) Der Spiritismus. Eine sogenanote wissen-
schaftliche Frage ......................................................Leipzig, 1879
ZOLLNER (Profe88or Friedric~ Zur Aufklarung des deutschen Volkes
~~:l=li;8!;~~~~.~..~~.~~.~~~~~~~~~~~.~~.~~~~~~ 1880
MAOGIORANI (Carlo) Influenza del Magnetismo sulla vita Animale
Rome,188O
* PrNented by Mrs. F. A. Moulton. :: Presented by the Publisher.
S Presented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
