{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1margaret_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Margaret R Possible NDE 7383","mylang":"de"}
          	        Margaret R Possible NDE 7383  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Margaret R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3755 Margaret R Possible NDE 7383  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					All that I remember is that I was sitting in a room.  It wasn't a room in that it had doors or windows.  It was more like a section of a white marble structure.  There were columns and archways.  I was sitting on steps.  I do not remember if I had any thoughts.  I can not described what I looked like.  I just remember sitting there and I had on a robe.  I seemed rather small but that was in comparison to the archways behind me.  

There was darkness in that there did not seem to be any discernible source of light.  It is hard to explain how it could be dark and there was light at the same time.  

This larger being pretty much just floating into the area where I was and told me "the Father is ready to hear your petition".  I then followed this being.  The next memory was floating in front of the Father to deliver my petition.  The Father sat on an immense throne.  I could not see His face; but, I could see his legs and arms.  He was, is, pretty huge.  I was floating in front on Him and I was very small in comparison, like the size of a fly to a human.  While there was darkness around me and the elect, there was an intense light behind Him.  

On either side of the throne stood a large number of beings, who were also a great deal bigger than I, but not nearly the size of the Father.  In my memory these were the "elect" or teachers.  

The Father spoke to me and asked me to begin.  I explained that I wanted to help "Ramona" and why.  I do not remember the details of why, just that she was a good person and could do great things with help.  

He then asked me about my training.  At this time, three of the beings that were in the line came forward and stopped behind me.  One of them (I have the impression that he was the leader or the one with more authority) moved forward more and said that I had been trained and had responded well to my training.  

I then began to describe the training that I had received and what I learned from it.  As I explained it, I had a review of the training as if I was engaged in the activities.  The only thing that I can remember is leaning how to walk and maintain a connection to the divine at the same time.  I also remember that I learned to withhold making judgments, not just about a person, but also about any situation or circumstance that I found myself within.  I was not to determine if it was bad or good.  I was to first allow the Father to show me how to view it, or the person, and how to react and feel about it.  This would be kind of fed or downloaded to me in the form of an impression.  (I often get these in life).   This way, whatever the experience, the Father is telling me what I need to know in order to perform or react and feel in the manner that best suits my survival here and my growth to be that which I was created to be.  

When I was done the Father told me that it what I wanted to undertake would be very hard (it has been) and that I may not remember (I don't remember what He said here) and that my "Friends" may not be able to help me, especially if I didn't remember.  I responded by saying that I knew it would be hard but all I really needed to remember was how much I am loved, surrounded, and supported and in that to just "be".  

This is all I remember of the experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Unknown

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose.  Other: I don't know.  I was a baby.  I was told that my head fell forward.  But, nothing about if I stopped breathing.  My mother accidently gave me an overdose of medication.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I have no ideal.  It was the same throughout.  I have had other memories which I believe are associated with this "before" time.  The whole thing is confusing because it is more like the NDE allowed me to have these memories.  I do not know if they were formed before I was born or if they happened during the time I was overdosed as a baby.  I think the NDE made it possible for me to have these memories.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is no way to really do this.  Now, in my everyday life I see something that most people do not see.  When I look straight ahead I see what can be compared to snow on a television screen.  They do have a bit of what I sense is color, but I cannot say what it is.  It is especially strong at night.  My son sees this and I met one woman that also sees it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing to compare it with.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was behind the Father and was very, very bright and white.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I didn't "enter" a world.  I was there.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was a bit nervous about appearing in front of the Father prior to it.  But, once in front of Him I wasn't nervous, just excited to go to "Ramona".  I had a sense of urgency.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I cannot explain this in detail other than to say that everything that occurs here is known there and things are done to try to improve how things turn out here.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     It seems as if I may have but I don't know.  It was if the entity that I was floating there in front of God was some entity other than my human self.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I put my religious beliefs were unaffiliated because I was an infant and would have had no concept of religion.  I was later raised as a Protestant.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am going to try to become Catholic because of the saints.  But, I am not sure if I can.  It depends on how the official doctrine of the church is conveyed to me.  I have a Spiritual Director that is a Catholic Abbott.  If they were to tell me something I believe to be misguided and I have to state I believe it in order to be Catholic, I am not sure if I can become Catholic.  I have learned it all depends on the Catholic person you are talking with.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am going to begin taking classes to become Catholic.  This is mostly because of experiences I have had over my life time that I have only found to be explained by Saints.  My understanding of God and how we are connected and how immediate He is to us is pretty much how Juliann of Norwich describes.  I also found many similarities between my experiences and what Teresa of Avila describes in "The Mansions".

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was a baby.  I didn't have beliefs.  You made me select one in order to submit this form.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was an infant.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard the voice of the Father and of one of the elders.  The Father's voice gives one peace and pretty much took away my nervousness.  I did feel that I wanted to make Him proud of my performance when taking my training.  I felt very loved.  It was as if love is air and it was all around.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I existed, or the being in my memory existed long before this lifetime.  I also have a memory of being a spot of white light floating around the universe at will.  I am not sure how the two memories relate to one another. When I was very young I was upset

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It certainly does.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     See above.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not that it is "special" as to knowledge or purpose, just because I am awake makes me seem different than your average human being, but not special.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     My experience would relate more to the workings of Heaven than that of Earth's.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I was a baby when I had the NDE.  So, I didn't have a concept of before and after life.  What I have memories of suggests that we are ever evolving with help from Heaven.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We should seek help in every facet of our lives.  Guidance is always available and immediate.  It is often given in a manner that we cannot perceive.  It depends on the person's spiritual imprint--how loving they are and how aware they are.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We make a lot of silly blunders because there is so much we do not understand and what we can understand we often ignore--like loving each other as we love ourselves.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It is the engine that should be driving our actions and activities.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     I put that I am fearful because I am very much aware that what a human beings may do at any given time is not easy to predict.  Most people don't know this about themselves.  People just act against their nature to be good and loving and it doesn't make sense.  It is really quite illogical.  Yet, we like to believe humans are rational beings.  If we were, Earth life would be harmonious.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I always had this sense that we all are part of one huge family and was overly familiar with people when I was a child.  I thought of my family as operating as one being, there was no separation between my brother and sister and I in my mind, same for my mother and father.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Mostly because I am not clear on its implications.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I do but I can't say if I had them before the experience. I don't want to go into describing them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of being loved.  The sense that love is like air.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A long, long time.  Most people, including my sister, think I am a bit nuts or making it up.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was a baby, a very fat baby.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know when the memory of what I described first entered my mind.  I just always had this concept of never being alone and being taught and lead.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It would not make sense to question it given the experiences I have had in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes memories just come back to me.  Nothing gives rise to it.  They just come.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nope      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1margaret_r_possible_nde.html