{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1margaret_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Margaret B NDE 21239","mylang":"de"}
          	        Margaret B NDE 21239  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Margaret B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						897  Margaret B NDE  21239  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the washroom getting ready for bed when I felt dizzy. I sat on the stool, got my face towel, ran cold water on it, and put it to my face and my neck. I thought I would feel better, but sweat started running off me as if I had poured a glass of water over my head. I knew I was in trouble. I knew I had to get help. I made it to the bathroom door, got it opened and tried to call my husband. He was sound asleep on the sofa in the living room. I tried calling his name but it sounded like a whisper to me, so I said, ‘oh God, he'll never hear me!’ But all of a sudden, he jumped up off the sofa and ran to me. I tried to tell him to just help me to the bed and the only thing I remember is saying the word ‘just.’ That's it. That one word. My husband said as I was going to the floor I told him I loved him, and then I was gone. My eyes were open. I wasn't breathing, and he couldn't find a pulse. The next thing I remember is still being in the doorway of the bathroom, watching my husband running back and forth from the bedroom to the living room. I heard everything he said, and saw everything he did. My husband tried to resuscitate me until the ambulance came. My blood pressure was low and they said I was coming back. I never saw my body, but I felt the sensation of falling when I re-entered my body. That wonderful peace which I felt was gone. It took me about two weeks before I told my husband what happened.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death .  I guess I was having a heart attack but didn't know it. It wasn't like they describe a heart attack. I had no pain in chest or arm.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  But I didn't know I was apart from my body at the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt that I was alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard my husband say, ‘Marge, don't do this to me.’ I remember thinking, ‘what did I do this time?’

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see, I could hear. I felt concern for him and I felt a falling sensation. I remember trying to grab hold of something to keep from falling.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Concern for my husband. All I could see was his expression.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I felt like I was sent back for a reason, but I don't know what it is yet.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Or at least I don't remember.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I'm not afraid to die.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     When I was a child I could see things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the peace that I felt. I really can't describe it other than wonderful, and that is not a strong enough word for it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Everyone said I should share what happened. Tonight I decided to do just that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Now I know why I can see things. Because they are there, and I was there.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1margaret_b_nde.html