{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marci_f_fde.html","mytitle":"Marci F FDE 3933","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marci F FDE 3933  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marci F FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			1870 Marci F FDE 3933  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was coming home after work at about 8:30 pm and it had snowed and grown considerably colder. I knew the winding hilly back road like the back of my hand and enjoyed speeding along. Unfortunately the wooden/bridge was exposed and grew icy faster than the ground. I came onto the bridge, lost control of my car, and thought I would die.  I saw my life pass in front of me and at that same moment, something intervened to redirect my car and I glided safely to the other side. The next day, I took a walk near the bridge to study the icy effects and discover details. The bridge was closed. Someone else had gone over it after me, lost control and did not survive.<

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Winter 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    An accident that was mysteriously avoided.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Lost control of car on an icy bridge.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the life flashbacks and recognized myself in a high chair seeing life unfold to present day.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Somehow my car straightened out and I did not do it because I was watching flashbacks.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision stayed same. This all took place within ten seconds or less I believe.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Saw people from my life - family mainly.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Too fast to tell.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and fascination.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not for this experience but possibly for the second time I experienced this life flashback in Summer 1994.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Third revelation - past events became clear and future felt weighty as if I was going to have a struggle in front of me. Not future scenes but a dawning comprehension that was not in my head before that slam although due to the circumstances, I was searching for clues from the afterlife.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe there are higher beings than ourselves and that there is a rhyme and reason to life that we must follow by being closely in touch with these light-bearers.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there are higher beings than ourselves and that there is a rhyme and reason to life that we must follow by being closely in touch with these light-bearers.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Well, I do not 'fear' death. It is a transition and when your days are done and you've lived your life in the kindest way, then you should have nothing to fear are my thoughts today. Before, I didn't really think much about death other than that it was a murky subject.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Well, realized that there is another realm out there that may be a deciding factor in destiny.   The clarity of destiny or fate being meted out by higher beings with sacred insight.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was absolutely amazing. I was supposed to die and instead, I have no control and I'm watching my life fly by and avoiding a serious car accident at the same time without even doing anything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A pretty long time and now I will be doing a speech on NDE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Driving home from the airport on a four hour trip I was exhausted. I fell asleep at the wheel and an angel awakened me just in time to avoid a terrible accident in Fall 1994. Oops, this is afterward. I guess nothing tangible before the bridge episode.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened, there is no denying the truth and the facts. The next day, the bridge was closed due to a tragic accident. That could have been me but wasn't was my reaction.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above, but also: Did some research into the subject and realized I was not alone. Beginning of 'angel period' in the USA.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   1) Had a jumping horse, jump from a twelve foot cliff and saw the same life film unfold within seconds as I was on the horse in mid-air.  2) A near miss car accident where I fell asleep at the wheel.  3) When my six-year-old son was murdered, I had a revelation as to the murderer and it turned out to be right.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       These experiences have changed my life because I would not be here if not.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Immediately ask how many experiences have occurred.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marci_f_fde.html