{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1margaret_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Margaret C NDE 872","mylang":"de"}
          	        Margaret C NDE 872  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Margaret C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						354  Margaret C NDE  872  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I heard the sound of the impact.  I was like an explosion.  My daughter was in the passenger seat, my granddaughter was in her car seat behind me; all of a sudden I was in this bright light, the feeling of complete inner peace we seek for so much in this life, was within me, I had no fears or wish to return.  Then I was told, the baby must not die.  I still refused to return, and again I was told, the baby must not die.  All of sudden I was back in the driver's seat in my car.  It took me quite a while to be able to speak about this experience.  Eventually I did with my family and only one of my therapists that is helping me now from the last accident in 1996, from which I haven't recovered. I am a chronic pain patient, but when I want peace I bring myself back into the light.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Oct. 20, 1983

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident     car accident trauma to the headThis was the second time I've been stopped at a red light and been hit from behind.  There was to be a third accident in the same manner, but only on the second I crossed the light.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Being in this beautiful bright light, peace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don't know for how long I was unconscious, I've asked my daughter, but she is not sure, she said I was slumped over the steering wheel.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was in a tunnel of light, beautiful light.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not really.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was in a tunnel of light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I did not see who send me back.  I can't explain how we communicated. I did not wish to return and refused twice: the second time I was back in the car.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not wished to return, but I was told that I had to.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Roman catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   roman catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became a better person, more giving; I always joke about not losing my brownie points.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     At this point I am not ready to discuss this matter.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There is no worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Very few and it is very hard to convey onto others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think I've said what happened the best way I can.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      All I know I was in this beautiful, peaceful tunnel of light and the baby (my granddaughter, could not die) therefore I was sent back, at no time was she referred to by her name or being my granddaughter, just was, 'the baby must not die.'

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1margaret_c_nde.html