{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marco_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Marco C NDE 2522","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marco C NDE 2522  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marco C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						816  Marco C NDE  2522  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  

I had been to hospital for a serious pancreatitis, it has been diagnosed with little life time left for me, and my parents were at my bedside. About 2:00 am on 06/26/2002, I blacked out (everything has been reported by my father who was there). I entered some kind of pre-coma that was expected by the medical staff because of my pathology, and from which I would not easily get away alive.

What happened in those moments (according to my father, I've been unconscious during six hours) is incredible!! I passed through a huge and dark tunnel with my body (but much lighter and almost brittle), but darkness was not scary as I was going towards a light at the end of the tunnel that was becoming closer and closer. I passed it lightly and smiling - lovely and warm air on my face and my hair (I particularly remember soft air waving my hair)! I turned my head forward heading to the light as I traveled towards it, quite lying, not as a position but because I was steadily determined to go to the light. The more I approached, the more I felt total wellbeing. I could not measure time. There is no clock there and a minute may last several hours, or hours may elapse within a thousand of a second, there is no humanly rationalized time! I only had a temporary disconnection from earthly life during the trip, I could see, from outside of my body and presumably from a ceiling corner, a doctor or a nurse bent over me - my travel was about to end. I felt incredible wellbeing envelope me, I was in the center of the light!! So much peace - so much love!! So much incredible sense of wellbeing!! In the middle of the door I recognized my grandmother who had been dead for six years, and whom I still treasure!! She put her hand on my forehead just at the light entrance. She told me, 'Go back - not yet! I'll always be there waiting for you - don't worry!'

I passed the tunnel back, I perceived that as one thousandths of a second, and I opened my eyes. My grandmother wasn't there, but my father was striking my forehead and he said to me, 'You survived.' I was happily serene and refreshed, during a few days, I could not remind much of my travel - but today I'm able to tell you. I did it.

Thanks for your attention.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 21/06/1986  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Serious pancreatitis.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   The awareness of 'flying' or 'sliding' in the tunnel towards the light was particularly real, to such an extent that I can recall profound affability and a sense of TOTAL wellbeing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I observed the doctors over me for little and confused time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I was not able to take time into account as I was in pre-coma.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A very large slide towards the light surrounded by wellbeing and peace - I remember the pleasant warmth of the air.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met the person whom I most loved then - my mother's mother.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was always light, from the beginning to the end of the tunnel, but my desire to join it and stay steadily increased as I approached it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     no mai  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Inner wellbeing and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Never.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a believer more than before.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a believer more than before.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Supreme love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know that the one who dies is preferred.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Nothing.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Soul and spirit wellbeing, and awareness that you are not alone.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it to an aunt of mine who made me aware of your site. I did not tell it to anybody else who would have taken seriously what I said.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I didn't.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     And incredibly beautiful.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     And unforgettable.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No - you are perfect, thanks a lot.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marco_c_nde.html