{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marcello_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Marcello R NDE 3449","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marcello R NDE 3449  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marcello R NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1475 Marcello R NDE 3449  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was in the days of Hippies, drugs, free sex, and rebellion. I had just turned twenty-one and was feeling on top of the world. I had saved up enough money to travel to London England (which would be my fourth trip in approximately sixteen months) to visit and party with my friends there. It was a Friday and I finished my job as a salesman jobber and at about 7:00 pm I decided to stop at a party I had heard of near Telegraph Avenue and Dwight Way. I remember it so well I heard the music of Pink Floyd, as I climbed the stairs to the second floor over a 'Head shop' on the ground level. I had taken drugs in the 1960's, various experimental drugs and smoked weed. But now with the job I had and my own feelings of growing tired of that scene (the drug scene) I was committed to drinking. I say this because one thing I must make clear before I continue. My NDE was 'not' brought about because of any hallucinations due to drugs.

Anyway, as I entered the party I was approached by a few people I knew but most of the people there were strangers. I was directed to a table that had a large bowl, which my friend said, was a wine and juice punch. I got a glass and sipped it, slowly at first, but it tasted so light, sweet and good that I decided to drink it down like juice. At approximately 7:45, I started experiencing a strange feeling. People at the party also started to act strange. One girl started taking her clothes off, another just started crying. All in all, I knew something was wrong. So I found the girl who was giving the party and I asked her what did she put in the punch. (I had drank four glasses.) She said nothing her but this 'Guy', who she didn't know, poured a bunch of white powder in it and said it was 'Dust of the Angels' - 'PCP' as it is known now, or 'elephant tranquilizer' as it is used to tranquilize animals. Now I was beginning to feel ill, so I decided to leave. 

As I started to go down the stairs, I looked down the stairs to the doorway to go out into the street and it was like a reverse telescope. The big end to my eye and looking out the small end. I reach the street and felt like I was dying. I walked but I couldn't breathe very well. I saw a man coming towards me and I asked, 'Could you help me? I need to get to my car,' and I handed him my keys. The next thing I remember is waking up in the Berkeley police station in a cell with five other people. All sleeping on bunks and me lying on the floor. As I struggled to get up, I felt I couldn't breathe, so I banged on the cell door and tried to tell the officer I needed medical attention. I was now breathing so slow and shallow that I just lay down and closed my eyes. I could hear my heart beating in my ears and it was slowing down, until I tried to breathe and nothing happened I couldn't move.

Then I said to myself 'I'm dead.' I don't know how long I lay like that but at one point, I found myself floating. As I floated upward, it was as if I were looking down on myself. I could see me lying face up on the floor. I continued to rise and looking back at my image, I began to get smaller and smaller until everything went black. I could still feel myself rising, floating upward, so I turned my attention the other way. That's when I saw blackness all around me with thousands of little flashes of light almost flickering all around me.  As I started to pick up speed, at this time I felt the most wonderful feeling I had ever felt, and to this day have never felt again. I can't describe the feeling altogether. The faster I accelerated toward what appeared to be a 'Dot' of light at first and then began growing larger and brighter, I felt filled with JOY! Now I was being bathed by the bright light as I approached it and I seemed as if I was about to pass into or through the light when to my left I heard this feminine and beautiful voice say to me, 'Are you ready?' 'Yes,' I said. 'Yes! Yes! I am ready!'

At this time I was being bathed by the light, I had ceased all movement and I felt as if I was immortal. At that very moment, the voice whispered in a soothing tone, 'It's not your time yet!' I think I blinked, maybe just imagined I did. In the next moment I was on the floor of the police station cell coughing while the police guard gave me mouth to mouth and CPR while yelling, 'Breathe, come on breathe!' I did breathe and six months later, after recovering physically and mentally from an 'animal tranquilizer overdose' place in a punchbowl by a vicious person, I thought about my 'dream'. That is what I thought it was at first, but it kept on coming back to my memory and the feelings I felt where so real.

I finally told my girlfriend about it and she said it sounded like an out of body experience not a dream. It was at a time way before these experiences were being documented so I know I could not have imagined it because of pre-concluded notions; the lights the voice and the phrase, 'It's not your time yet!' These were so real and now that I read about so many with the same exact words! Wow! I'm really getting excited about what this all means.

Thank you for allowing me to share my NDE with everyone,

Marcello.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/22/1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Just before the voice said it's not your time yet.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before the voice said it's not your time yet.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time or place.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see all around at the same time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear with my whole being not with my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was more like a funnel - it was very wide - but everything seemed to be connected to the bright light, like a bull's-eye circle.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt a presence beside me as I traveled toward the light - always on my left though.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a pin dot at first and then it grew larger and brighter until it bathed me in it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     JUST OUTSIDE OF THE BRIGHT LIGHT ..WITH ONE FOOT IN AND ONE FOOT OUT

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A joy and a freedom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     One foot in one foot out, was the feeling I had. But I knew if I crossed into the light it was what I lived for.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know there is a life after death - 'I've been there'.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is a life after death - 'I've been there'.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that I was part of everything and everything was a part of me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The girlfriend I had then left me because she said I started acting different.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part just before entering the light, and when the voice said it's not my time yet. I knew it wasn't as soon as the voice spoke.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six months. The first person accepted it, but others just listened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I thought it was just a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was not a dream all along - but not knowing of these types of experiences kept me in the 'closet' so to speak.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real and although again I was 'drug overdosed' it was not the drug affect that produced this.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marcello_r_nde.html