{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marcel_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Marcel Possible NDE 2339","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marcel Possible NDE 2339  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Marcel Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Anesthesia  						683.5  Marcel Possible NDE  2339  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

When I was a child I had my tonsils removed. I remember being very scared the days before the surgery. The first thing I remember is that I had to inhale gas from a mask. Then I felt myself slipping (spiraling) in an unconscious state. Soon after that, I noticed that it was all yellow around me, a very warm yellow. I had a broader field of vision. I remember that I did not realize what happened to me, but I was very alert and curious.

In the left corner, I could feel something warm and I heard beautiful music coming from it. Kind of New-Age, relaxing. To the right, I could clearly see a Mandala. This wheel rotated very slowly, but also, I had the feeling that this wheel could not be stopped, no matter what. A very solid, slow, relentless movement. This wheel had rings in it and they rotated in the wheel. Inside this rotating wheel, I saw small black figures, they rotated with this wheel. I remember I was fascinated and curious about these figures; they did not frighten me at the time of this experience.

Next thing I remember is that I could see myself just from right above. I saw people dressed in green and a lot of blood. Next, I started to feel a lot of pain. I must have awoken too soon from the surgery. I left the table with a lot of blood in my mouth. But my parents gave me a cute Seagull doll and I was very happy again when I left the hospital!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1981 approx.  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Other I awoke too soon from surgery.  I awoke too soon from the surgery, as a child.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Somewhat more alert and very curious as to what happened. I was a child. I did not think that inhaling gas would result in this experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was the same during the experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had a much broader field of vision I estimate 180 degrees.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    But I heard familiar music, which was very relaxing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw, rotating within the wheel, several small black, abstract beings. I did not know what/who they were.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a warm, yellow light, all around me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was curious, amazed and very relaxed. Especially after the blackness after inhaling the awful smelling gas.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I have never had a real relationship; I've noticed that the people here are very afraid when it comes to dealing with themselves; and the serious matters of life. As long as they have their work they are okay it seems.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been extremely sensitive. This was also before this experience. I suffer from severe allergies and recently I can feel in what emotional state people are. This makes me very sad, because most people seem to be searching for something, and they are afraid of letting go. Most people are afraid of searching inside themselves; they cling to the familiar things they know. I do not contact them, however.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I forgot.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can remember this experience more clearly than any other experience in my life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marcel_possible_nde.html