{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1marc_andre_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Marc-Andr\u00e9 B Possible NDE 7144","mylang":"de"}
          	        Marc-André B Possible NDE 7144  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Marc-André B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3614 Marc-André B Possible NDE 7144  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went out of my body; I saw my silver line that connected me to it. My parents were in the hospital room where I was in an incubator connected everywhere with all kinds of machines. My mother was crying and my father didn't say anything but held my mother in his arms. 

I turned, as if looking at the ceiling. I felt being pulled upward and I saw the light with big soft warmth that went through my being. I almost instantly found myself in a luminous place where everything was marvelous, where I felt much, much love, infinite knowledge and above all a learning of my previous and future lives. There were light beings around me, talking to me and I felt very good, with complete trust.  At a certain moment, I realized that I was dead. I asked them and they answered 'YES, you are dead; I'm here to guide you'. 

I learned that in a previous life I had been a multiple healer and that I committed many errors.  I chose to do this life again on the BLUE planet, in order to acquire altruism, forgiveness, and to better understand the suffering of living beings.  I wanted to understand the negative aspects of humanity and to better be able to fight the evil powers at my return into the light.  I wanted to rise higher into the light, in order to be able to heal from a distance, master time, and transfers into other dimensions. They explained everything to me, gave me my instructions. I thought about mother who was grieving and I reintegrated into my, at that moment dying, child body and came back to life by miracle. 

The doctors said that I should have died. I remember the main lines, as during all my life, I had flashes and experienced special things, which lead me to help other people. Lead me to intervene and to accompany people in terminal phase towards the Light, to help them cross it towards their God. To understand that I have natural gifts of clairvoyance, of healing, and that it is very important to love others and not to cause them sorrow, by talking without reflection, about what I say. That I can teach to other people tricks to be a better human. 

Today I'm using a stick of energy in order to give vibratory communication. I'm sharing my knowledge, which is always coming to me, to help those who believe when I talk to them. I'm also using certain techniques with my hands, which I never saw, nor read in any book, nor anybody doing the same thing on our planet. Those knowledge and practices come to me from elsewhere (versus the light and my previous lives) most possibly through my near death. But I have no tangible proofs about it. At last, I can practice them for a few years: since the era of the New Age. In my spare time I'm writing a book and/or a series of books about this subject.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8 december 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the light and sensed a big and good warmth that was growing the more I was rising.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       A pyramid of light in the infinite love of God (or however you want to call him, the name has no importance) a higher level.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time in my experience, but in ‘real time’ it was taking 5 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like I was flying as a bird. I was seeing me and other things like I was not in my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was in light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, I saw a planet called little earth where I was growing up.  I leaned to heal by molecular transfers, without any tool and where I assisted other beings that were occupied to block pain, their hands on the head of the patient, and where people lived in a natural way, without machines or any pollution and the communication was by telepathy, among others.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very good, it was bad after I came back to my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Today I have faith, but no religion nor any known practice. I do my best to convey love and pardon, but I'm not perfect. Unfortunately I upset some people and I know that I will pay for it when I will leave this body at my next departure of my vehicle.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I am not practicing it. i born n live this way from my family. But i do not praticing any religous...i sare love n try to stay clean whit any one. I prefer to live like (ligth angel way).

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   i was in a butiful light n eard voice cant see no one, but i feel presences

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     i dont remember all sory

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     i remember 3 worlds different. One i discrive in question # 24. un autre ou les etre son des robots et vivant a la fois nommer Leader il ne se déplace pas physiquement il utilise une machine qui es intégrer a leur corps qui leurs permet de voyager, commun

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     thiere is superior light positive (gods) n also negative being..that balance all everywhere.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I remember 3 different worlds. One I describe in question # 24. Another world had beings that were alive and like robots, called Leader, but they are not moving physically. They are using a machine that is integrated with their body and allows them to travel, communicate universally and/or to bring back from their planet what they need. They don't belong to the positive side, one never should send them love or light, this is shocking them, and there was an intergalactic war because of this in their dimension.   The third was a world was of white giants called 'the knights of the light’; they look like a badly done horse with six legs, as well as a half body integrated into it. They hold a spear, totally made of light.  They use a living space ship and move by temporal jumps; and intentionally are in the search for energy; they are more or less positive competitors.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Thiere are other life or galaxie, n a life after this one whit-out a body for a time if ...

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     il y auras une 3 ieme guerre mondial vers les années 3 milles et après nous auron la visite des habitants de la petite terre,pour nous aider a tous nous unire en amour etc... les machine seront détruite ainsi que toute les armes pour un vie meilleur en ut

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     It started around my 25 years of age. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Some of my friends are gone. Some of my family thinks I am sick (or a fool); so I changed places to live, to go where some are same as me. Also life puts people like me on the road.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was very special, but I was so young that it is another miracle that I do remember my experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    26 years later

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As I said before, in 1987 I started to live more with my gifts and talk about it, when a new age appeared in our life time. It was easier to talk about it, read a book to try to understand it more.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I use it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Some flash came back to me, and also people appeared on my road. A new friend practiced Reiki, and talked about other NDEs.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is other life or Galaxy, and a life after this one without a body. There are superior light positive God and negative beings that balance all, everywhere. There will be a third world war around the years 3000 and after this; we will get the visit of the inhabitants of little earth, to help us all to unite in love. Machines will be destroyed as well as all weapons, for a better life in using the natural resources, in a way to protect what will be left of our planet, with love. They will leave again while leaving an emissary of the light for us.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1marc_andre_b_possible_nde.html