{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mani_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Mani O NDE 195","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mani O NDE 195  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Mani O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						656  Mani O NDE  195  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 On the night of February 3, 2002 I had a very strange dream (this story is not a dream as you will see later on).


I saw myself standing in an open, I guess the best words are, dead desert, there a was blackish grey sky and the ground was like hard dry cracked sand. In front of me were three hooded spirits with a well-like thing in front of them. It was long four to five feet in height with mercury type water in it. Though I never saw any faces or hands these spirits were asking me if I wanted to stay or go back. I honestly at this point can't explain it but I knew I wasn't dreaming it felt so real it was fearful. I said I wanted to go back. Then I was shown the well, with a terrible life ahead of me if I went back. I remember saying no, I want to go back, my kids need a father to grow up. The water froze and this incredible light appeared. It felt so bright it was overwhelming, though I couldn't see with my eyes; it felt as though I was seeing an image of Christ. He told me he would honor my request. I woke up feeling very strange yet alive and afraid even though I believed or wanted to believe it was just a dream.


Later that morning I went to work, had my calls as usual, nothing strange, didn't even think of my dream. Later that afternoon, I got a string call, nothing to with what I'm doing that day, very easy call (you would wish every day you had calls this easy), but it was out of the area I was working in. Even though I didn't want the call, I still did it as the company claimed they had nobody else. What I didn't know at the time is that the call was refused by another tech as it was too dangerous.


When I got there, it didn't seem like a big deal except for the fact that it was thirty feet in the air, but with a ladder it's not a big deal, I've done many calls like these. Oh well, I put my ladder up, made sure it was safe, then went up. I forgot something so I had to go back down. As I started to head down the ladder kicked out and I started to fall thirty feet with a hundred pound ladder.


As I was falling there was silence, no wind. It wasn't cold. There was the light there with me and I looked down and saw myself after I heard the crack of the ladder. I saw myself on the ground. I was thirty feet in the air with this powerful light. Instead of snow, I saw the light ahead of me with beautiful warmth. The light, that was with me, let me got the light.  As I was in there, I felt a pause, where now I was with the light of Christ, and watched myself as though I was traveling back in time where I saw myself in bed, the void, and the accident. It was weird because it felt like I was at all places at the same time. As I saw everything, I felt the light telling me that he would honor my request to go back. I said I will go back, even though I feel like I wish, to stay I must go back.


As I descended back to my body something was said to me, all I remember is saying, 'I promise.' When I woke up there was a lady there and a whole bunch of people standing over me.  911 calls were placed stating that I had died. The first thing that I heard was the lady that was on top of me crying, then she became shocked that I woke up and said, 'You must have done good things for people and God let you live.' She then yelled to her husband who came over and said, 'You were dead, oh my God! You were dead, God let you live!' After that, police, ambulance, and firemen, all showed up and were shocked to see me alive with a bump on my head the size of a golf ball. I was rushed to hospital.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/3/2002

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Clinical death I fell thirty feet onto concrete with a hundred-plus pound ladder.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I never gave much thought to this, but now I recall, in the void, I was in uniform (work clothes). In the end, I was one with the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      None.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I just can't explain it, but it feels like I'm older than what I think myself to be.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Harmonic tone or feeling when I was in the light. Otherwise silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     When I went into the light there was an opening. Once in, it was like I was one with the light, and everyone in it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See main narrative.  Once in the light I could see and feel all life that was a part of the energy.  

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Incredible light appeared it felt so bright it was overwhelming though I couldn't see with my eyes it felt as though I was seeing an image of Christ.   I flew into it. It was so amazing, overwhelming, it was like it was so hard to explain, it was as though I was one with the world, I knew everything, I felt everything, I was here and there it was as though I was one with the whole universe, it's just so beautiful words can't explain it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see the worlds of the lives that were one with the light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Happy to go back for my children and wife but sad to leave.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Moderate   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     When I don't think about it, I can see a person and know things about him, like what kind of person he/she is, or what they are planning (I can't really explain this one).

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling of peace joy love that was felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can feel things around me as though spirits want to communicate with me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All I can say is the worst feeling was having to leave.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some people think I'm crazy. Others think they can answer what happen scientifically. Others cry and some just don't want to talk to you again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      People that I meet usually like me more than before and for some reason trust me as though I have known them for years. I've even had people tell me, 'why did I just tell you all this?' Regarding their life. These being people I just meet and don't know at all and probably wouldn't give me the time of day.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mani_o_nde.html