{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9729 5136","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n35_supplement_dec_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N35 Supplement December 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXV.-VOL. II.-SUPPLEllBllT.
JOURNAL
OF THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SUPPLEMENT TO THE DECEMBER NUMBER.
ON THE REPORTS, PRINTED IN THE JOURNAL FOR
JUNE, OF SITTINGS WITH MR. EGLINTON.
(Continued.)
By RICHARD HODGSON.
Having thus, as a preliminary, acquired some certain knowledge
from a consideration of those few of the very reports a.t issue which
permit of direct comparisons, we may now proceed to deal with the
remaining reports, bearing in mind the faults to which we are all liable,
and of which we ha.ve just obtained such indubitable illustration.
The first of these reports is that rendered by Mr. Hogg and
\ myself.
I shall first state lOme of my remembrances concerning this report for
what they may be worth. Mr. Bogg and myself had a short conversation in
the street immediately after the sitting of June 27th, and found that we were
both independently of opinion that Eglinton produced the writing himself
without the intervention of any extraordinary agency. Each of us,
moreover, had thought it not unlikely that the other would attribute the
writing to "occult" agency, in consequence, chiefly, of the illusion of
perception caused by the sound as of writing, and the tendency to forget the
circumstances which had pre\'iously occurred, and which suggested how the
writing was actually produced. The report which we presented is strictly a.
joint report; we drew it together, sentence by sentence. There were several
mattors which we did not directly mention, because we were not in entire
agreement as to the actual facts. Some months ago I was under the,
impression that I had made a list of these points, with details, on one of
the sheets used in the original draft, as well as a list of other points upon.
which we did agree, but which we thought not worth mentioning in our
report. On referring to the draft, the only notes which I can find not
incorporated in our report, belong to the latter class, and are as follow ;-
1. Extra cautiousneBB of Bogg at beginning of sitting. [i.e., Mr. Bogg,
who was originally sitting next to Eglinton, did not allow his
attention to be apparently drawn away from Eglinton'. hand holding
the slate ; and hence, I afterwards inferred, Eglinton's request that
Mr. Bogg and myself should change places.]
2 I
Digitized by Google
490 8upplem,ent to the December JlYUI1"IWJ"
2. Furtive glances [of Eglinton under the table when the alate was out
of light].
3. Convulaive movementa before, but not during [Bound sa of] writing,-
and no convulaive movementa afterwardB.
4. Manifest display of legs on Saturday. General careleaanesa. [i.e.,
on the part of Eglinton. The" succeBBful Bitting" W81 on Friday j
on Saturday no result W81 obtained.]
I Bhall now briefly comment upon BOme of the detaila of our report.
" He then brought a wet sponge, with which we washed the sIatee." I
infer from the generality of this statement that we did not take care to ascer·
tain that all six surfaces (of the three slates) were w8lhed. In our description
of the manner in ~hich Eglinton first placed the slate under the table, we
make no reference to the position of the marks which we had made
on the frame. I Btill posaeB8 the alate, and find that the marks are on the
same end and aide as the first writing, so that, supposing the slate to have
been placed originally in the same position as it occupied when the BOund as
of this writiug was audible, Eglinton must originally have held the slate at
the end which was not marked. In connection with our change of pIaeea.
we say nothiug whatever as to what became of the slate in the interim,
whether it was still held under the table, or withdrawn and re-inserted,
&C. Later, we use the expreaaion, .. There being no result" j from which
I infer that the slate was probably withdrawn and looked at j yet thedetaila
of the withdrawal and inspe.::tion and re-insertion are not mentioned in the
report.
I Buppose that it was during the "another short interval of conversa-
tion " mentioned, that Eglinton IISed the opportunity of producing the first
writing, and that he then reqlle&ted the quotation to be repeated. Although
we very specially note in our report that Eglinton sometimes changed
hands during the Bitting, and that his hand and the slate were "at timlll
quite out of sight below the table," we do not state exactly when these event8
occurred.
Our account of the second writing is ludicrous from ita lack of detail
.. Another tlial was made with the other side of the same alate, and under
similar circumstances the word 'ErDest' was found written." We say
nothing as to any examination of this "other side" before the slate was again
placed wlder the table, from which I infer that 110 examination was made, so
that the word" Ernest" may have already been lIpon the slate before it W81
re-inserted ;and further we say nothing as to how it was fe-inserted, a most
important consideration. I find that the word " Ernest" is written not
only on the" other aide," but at the other end of the slate,i.e.,on that portion
of the Blate which was in contact with Eglint(Jn'B fingers under the table and
which could therefore have been easily written upon by him during the first
"experiment," even with hiB thumb and the edge of the slate in Bight, and
without any visible movement on hiB part. I think it not improbable that the
word was BO written, and that Eglinton replaced the slate in such a manner
that the word escaped our observation.
Concerning the experiment with the two sla.tes, we say nothing about any
examination of them immediately previous to the experinlent, from which I
Digitized by Google
Swpplement to the December JO'l.I/rrwl. 491
infer that no uamination waa then made. It is probable that the experi-
ment waa made at the 8uggestion of Eglinton, though we do not say 80. The
careful reader will S88 that we do not make any positive statement concem-
ing the manner of production of the third writing-but I have now little
doubt that the poaaibility we suggested is the COlTect explanation. Why did
Eglinton take a third slate and hold it uflder the table, .. hand and slate
being quite out of sight,"-when our experiment waa with the two slates on
the table 1 Why did he drop it on the floor 1 Why did he move the upper
of the two lllates at leaIt twice, no 1I0und aa of writing having been heard,
though thill is usually so " distinctlyaudible" when the writing is IIUpposed to
be in proc81111 of production 1 Our report doell not specify how many timell
he did this, nor whether even the ordinary pencil waa between the slates at
the conclusion of the experiment;* further it does not lltate expre"l,y that the
two slates were taken by Eglinton below the table, that he complained of
their weight, and that he tranafelTed them from one hand to the other before
requesting me to &BIist in holding them, though these events appear to be
clearly implied by our account. It is obvious that when we wrote our
report we were in lOme lmcertainty al to Eglinton's treatment of the three
alatell on the table; but, aa I have said, I adopt the snpPOllition which we
suggested, viz., that Eglinton wrote upon the third slate while it W8S under
the table, that he substituted this for the upper of the two slates, and after-
wards tunled both slates over together. I have a strong and clear" remem-
brance" that I saw Eglinton turning the slates over at the time he changed
handa, and that the slates were IIOmewhat displaced in the procou, 80 that
the pencil, or pencils, might have fallen out from between them before the
simulated production of writing; but I place no reliance whatever upon this
"remembrance," and think it just aalikely that Eglinton may have previously
removed the red pencil, and that the ordinary pencil W88 between the slates
at the conclusion of the experiment. Neverthelesa, although,88 it happens,
Mr. Hogg and myself observed enough and rememberell enough to produce in
us the conviction that the phenomena at our "succeuful" sitting were the
result of trickery, there are, 88 we see, many important. omissions in our
report duo to deficiencies in probably both observation and recollection ; and
I believe that had we asserted that the production of the writing by ordinary
agency waa precluded, instead of the contrary, I should, in the face of thto.ao
omissions, and with the knowledge which 1 have since attained of the
absurdity of accounts given by uninitiated witneu08 of conjuring perform-
ances, class such an &BIertion among the rash and unwalT&Dtsble judgments
of unqualified investigators.
Reporl& of PROFESSOR LoDGE, MR. GURNEY, and PROFESSOR
BALFOUR STEWART.
The next report is that of ProfeBBOr Lodge and Mr. Gumey, who state
" that they do not regard their experiences 88 conclusive. or even aa affording
any important support to the theory that the writing is not produced by
ordinary human agency." This statement extends apparently to their report
• According to my remembrance we discussed these two points whton
writing our report, but felt uncertain about them.
2 I 2
Digitized by Google
492 Supplement to the December Jou,rnal.
of a later sitting at which Profe880r Balfour Stewart was also present; they
say further that "The only s\1cceu which was really difficult to explaiD
occurred at their first visit." On this first visit the writing obtained was the
singlo word Bob, for which ProfeBBor Lodge had asked. It was found in the
usual poaition on the alate, "precisely the poaition .. it would occupy. as Mr.
Lewia has pointed out (p. 366}-both generallyand in regard to this particular
case,-if Eglinton "tumed the slate round in itll own plane (by no means a
difficult matter), then wrote the worda, and once more reversed the slate."
No atatement in the report of Meurs. Lodge and Gurney, even apparently,
precludea thia auppoaition. They say :-
The alate was held under the table by Mr. Eglinton, who held it with
hia right hand by one comer-hia thumb being in view throughout.
His left hand was held by ProfeBBOr Lodge. The teat mark was on
the upper aurface of the rim, next the table; was for moat of the
time visible, but was occasionally coveted by Mr. Eglinton'a thumb.
We are absolutely convinced that that aurface remained uppermost
throughout the experiment.
They do not aBBert that the same end of the alate was always near Eglin-
ton, and they do not asaert that the slate throughout was proBBed firmly againat
the table. The test-mark, presumably on the side near Eglinton (and
presumably not at the end where the word was found) "was occasionally
covered by Mr. Eglinton'a thumb" ; that ia to 8I\Y, it was not visible, and
tha alate may, on one or more of these occaaious, have been quietly revolving
in itll plane. There appears to have been a considerable interval during
which Eglinton may have found the opportunities of perfonning the operatiOD5
required; the writers mention .. about a quarter of an hour of waiting,'·
during which Eglinton held the slate alone; but the withdrawal of the slate
which is previously 8I\id to have taken place" after some minutes," seems to
have occurred during this •• quarter of an hour" ; and I presume that after
the re-insel'tion of the slate there was an interval of eight minutes for
Eglinton to tum and re-tum the alate and write the word Bob. I und~
stand, moreover, that at this sitting, as usual, those present were engaged
more or leu in converBlltion ; and unleBB the attention of the aitters waa
directed without intennisaion towards the slate, not much importance can be
attributed to their atatement that Eglinton's thumb was in view throughout.
It ia worth noting ~hat one highly important incident is mentioned only
parenthetically, viz., the withdrawal and inspection of the slate, when .. there
was no writing."
The writing described in the next record-a P, with an attempt at an e,
-did not, as we have seen, impreu Mours. Lodge and Gumey as being
" really difficult to explain," ao that I need not cousider the case in detail.
The report begins: "Professor B. Stewart sat a little apart, in a position
where he could watch the alate and hands" ; but we should notbe justified in
inferring, from this vague deacription of where ProfeBBor Stewart was aitting
and what he was doing, either tha.t he did watch "the slate and handa " per-
siatently throughout, or that hia position enabled him to see the portion of the
slate and Eglinton's fingers under the table. We may notice in pRSIIing a
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the December JO'U'1"I'IA1l. 493
significant fact which the sitters were careful to mention, that at this sitting
the writing was "at the end of the slate nearest Mr. Eglinton and was
turned towards him," an unusual position, which was probably owing to the
circumstance which Mr. Lewis has emphasised (p. 366, note), that "the slate
was attached by string to Profe880r Lodge's middle finger throughout." We
are not told how long the string was, and to what portion of the slate it was
attached, but I suppose, with Mr. Lewis, that it prevented Eglinton's turning
the slate, at least without running great risk of detection.
Rep&rt8 of MBa. BRlETZCKB.
I have already referred (p. 428) to the omiaaiona in Mrs. Brietzcku's
reports as regards the examination of the slates used at the sittings. Her
general description of the cleaning at the commencement of the sitting on
June 13th leaves no' difficulty in the way of supposing that yu was already
upon, II&Y, the under surface of the top alate when it was placed above the
other (the slateB being turned over together in the act of placing them under
the table, as I have explained in other instanceB). According to Mrs.
Brietzcke'B account, the first three queationa were asked by Eglinton himself,
and the anawers were merely yu. The fourth writing was also a yu, the (U-
,umed anawer to the queation addreBSed by Mrs. Brietzcke to her father D.S.
88 to whether he knew that A. and J. were in Jamaica; but it is hardly
neceSBarY to BUppose that at that time Eglinton had seen tho question. We
may suppose, howel'er, that when the not very specifio anawer yu was
obtained, Mrs. Brietzcke exhibited her queation to Eglinton.
-then a whole aide of another slate 'fJXl8 fUZed with a m6B8&ge, in a neat
olose hand, dictated by my father, who was unable to write himself
as the conditiona prevented; the mesaage was a sort of general
treatise on Spiritualiam.
How did Mrs. Brietzcke become &B8ured that this mesaage was dictated
by her father, &0. 7 It would also be intereating to know how muoh she
afterwards aaid about the characteristics of her father's handwriting, and how
abe was led to the conclusion that a later mesaage was "in his handwriting.
with his signature." It is not unlikely that Eglinton seized the opportunity
while the attention of the sittors was rapt in the long meaaage, to prepare
the next writing received by Mrs. Brietzcke. The long mlllllllge WR8
followed by a change in poaition of the sitters, which may also have afforded
Eglinton opportunitieB of "manipulating" the slates. The first writing
received after the change of position purported to be from some one
who knew Mrs. Brietzcke in New York; and Mrs. Brietzcke tella U8
emphatically that she had never been in New York. Probably Eglinton,
after hearing or seeing Mrs. Brietzcke's queation whether her father" knew
that A. and J. were in Jamaica," tried a "shot," which happened in this
instance to be beside the mark. {Another unsucoeBBful "abot" was made at
one of the sittinga recorded by Mr. Bennett, where the word for was
erroneouBly stated to be oontained in an envelope which had been sealed up,
with encloBurea, by Dr. A. T. Myers.} The incident suggests that some
"shots" of this kind on Eglinton's part may have been succeBBful, and
ehoWl again the importance of recording as far as possible all the details of
liigitized by Google
494 Supplement to the ])ecember Journal.
the sitting. (If Mrs. Brietzcke had been in New York and known persona
there, she might have identified the scrawling name which she was unable to
read, as something which it 'Wasn't. A scrawl which allows some scope for
imagination may at times have been employed by Eglinton very effootively.)
Mrs. Brietzcke aays: .. After my change of position took place aU the
messages written took place in mid-air with the slates held by Mr. Eglinton
and myself" ; but I think it is clear that this statement was made by Mrs.
Brietzcke on the assumption which appears throughout her account, that the
mesaages were being written while the sound as of writing was audible.
Itis unnecesaary to give detailed consideration to the thirteen .. occult ..
writ,ings (and the five writings of the sitters) described by Mrs. Brietzcke in
her report of the sitting of July 19th. We ha,"e Wilily learnt indirectly
from Mrs. Brietzcke herself (see Joumalfor October, pp. 426-42:3) lihat much
additional light might have been thrown on the events of the sitting by the
record of "incidents" and conversations to which Mrs. Brietzcke, doubUeas,
attributed little importance. For example, the qUeBtions about Professor
Barrett and Mrs. Blietzcke's mediumship may have been led up to or
suggested by Eglinton; or he may have inferred, from the conversation at the
sitting,that Mrs. Brietzcke would ask them; so that the "answers" might have
been upon the slates before Mrs. Brietzcke put the questions.* In any ca.se we
could not assign much value to Mrs. Brietzcke's remembrance of tho time-
intervals, even on the supposition that when she wrote her report she used
her expreBBions rigorously, in the record of a sitting where Eglinton's writ-
ings were so many, and Mrs. Brietzcke's important omissions yet manifusUy
more; wo have already seen (JQUnw for November, p. 466) how au
appreciable time-interval may dwindle out of recollection. I suppose that.
the figure 2, and H. K. B., were read by Eglinton under the table, the
slate being turned or a mirror being used, and then "l'Oproduced on the
other side." In the following instances, the absence of much. detail is
conspicuous, and Mrs. Brietzcke's language very su'Ongly suggests that she
has given us here but a few fragmentary peeps at a series of highly
important incidents.
I, hiding a slate, told Mr. Eglinton I had put a figure on it." Mias L.
did the aame on another slate and kept it. Mr. Eglinton now put.
a bit of slate and a bit of red pencil on the slate, and said:
" Multiply Mrs. Brietzcke's and Miss L.'s figures by 4." We heard
writing, and on uncovering aaw "6 8 " in slate, and "272" in red;
6 and 8 were Miss L.'s and my own figures respectively. I now
asked Mr. Eglinton to try his locked slate, and I wrote a private
question on another slate, letting no one see it, and turning it.
question down on the table at my side. On the locked slate we
soon heard writing. My question was "Can you advise for the
* At thesitting of June 13th Mrs. Brietzcke was told thatshe was a medium.
Mias Symons received similar information concerning herself at the first sitting
recorded by her (p. 307) ; and at her second recorded sitting, she, somewhat like
Mrs. Brietzcke at the sitting of July 19th, made an inquiry as to how shecouid
.1 best develop." This suggests that the sequence waa a common one.
Digitized by Google
SuppkrMnt to the })ecemher JournaZ. 495
family of X. Y. Z. 1" (names in full). On opening the locked
slate mystlf J saw written: .. We cannot advise for the family of
X. Y. Z." (names given in full).
Where was Eglinton when Mrs. Brietzcke was hiding the slate 7 Was
he ont of tAe ro01u! Where did Mrs Brictzcke hule the slate 1 Where did
Misa L. keep tho other slate 1 What precautions did the sitters take to pre
vent the nllmbers from being seen, or inferred (-e.g. from the BOund), while
they were in the act of writing them, (a) on the supposition that Eglinton
W8I in the room; (b) on the supposition that Eglinton was out of the room 7
.. Mr. Eglinton now put a bit of slate and a bit of red pencil on the slate."
Wllich slate 1 The one on which the previous message had been obtained 7
When was the locked .ate first introduced 1 Was it cleaned and examined
by anyone 1 What then became of it 1 We inferred (p. 427) from
the later communications made by }\frs. Brietzcke, that "lome of
Eglinton's Ilatel were in ule at ber sitting of July 19th in addition to
his locked llate." Hence there were at least Bix llatel about the table,
five of which we may presume were ordinary. It would appear that
"occult" writings were obtained on three (Mrs. Br'ietzcke'l) at least of these ;
yet if we pass over the first writing and except one instance where Mrs.
Brietzcke sayl: "the sante slate was placed as before," no specification is
given as to which of these thTtle slates was used for each experiment
respectively, and at whOle suggestion it was used. Further, we are not told
what precautions if any were taken to prevent the lurreptitious use by
Eglinton, during or between the experiments, of the alates regarded as not
in actual use. I auppose therefore that Eglinton may have had opportunities
of "manipulating" slates at times when they were not professedly in actual
use, and that he may by mesns of 1\ temporary substitution have found an
opportunity of reading one or both of the numbers hidden, and Mrs.
Brietzcko's question. Other suppositions will doubtle88 suggest themselves
to the reader. As to the answers, I suppose that the locked alate was held
by Eglinton under the table and there written upon; likewise, obviously, the
slate upon which 68 and 272 were found. On the last slate used, Goodbye
may have already been written before it was held under the table.
Mr. Eglinton, before we left, held a sheAt of notepaper in his fingers ;
thia he did lightly between his forefinger and thwnb. I asked for
six taps on the paper, and they were instantly given.
There is nothing to show that six tapa were not produced by Eglinton
himself by ordinary means, upon the sheet of paper held as Mrs. Brietzcke
describes, or elsewhere.
I suppose that the word no, obtained at the sitting of September 22nd,
1884, was already on the alate when it was placed over the pencil chip. Mrs.
Brietzcke apparently did not take the slate into her own handa for the
purpose of examining it, and she might easily have been deceived to the
extent of thinking that it was clean on both sides, even if she intended at
the time to ascertain this. It might also be supposed that when Eglinton
first took the slate, it toaI clean on both sid6s, but that he wrote the word
while he .. put a bit of pencil on the table and placed. this slate otIer the pencil
Digitized by Google
496 Supplement to the December JO'Urnal.
chip." We should note that the question seems to have been asked by
Eglinton himself, perhaps after he had waited in vain for Mrs. Brietzcke to
ask it.
In Mrs. Brietzcke's report of the sitting of July 9th, 1885, some detaila
are given concerning the "book-test," which was tried twice successfully. I
suppose that Eglinton-while he was .. much diaturbed "?-turned up the
page and found the word or words required and wrote them, while the book
in each case was on tho slate under the table. Mrs. Brietzcke says :-
The book was placed on the slate and held by me (it was a heavy one),
as well as Mr. Eglinton, in lJOBition under the table.
I suppose that Mrs. Brietzcke did assist Eglinton in holding the slate, but
only during the latter part of the time of waiting; that is to say, after the
real performance was over. In connection with l\frs. Brietzcke's final sentence
it will suffice to refer to the remarks made by Mr. Lewis in the JounW for
August, pp. 368-370.
Report of MB. HAROLD MURRAY.
Mr. Murray says: "All slates used were cleaned to our satWaction,
before us, with a damp sponge and a dry cloth." This suggests that Eglinton
himself cleaned the slates, a fact which is of special importance sa regards
Experiment 8.
Two slates held on upper surface of table. Mr. Eglinton asked for some
communication of interest. The slate was filled with writing in less
than one imd a-half minutes.
I suppose, with Mr. Lewis (p.366, note), that this writing was prepared
beforehand; and Eglinton himself asked for the .. communication." Mr.
Murray may have intended originally to assure himself that every slate used
for an experiment was clean immediately before the experiment; yet he may
have omitted in one or more experiments to satisfy himself on this point, and
afterwards forgotten the omission; or, although he satisfied himself, his
satisfaction may not have been justified, since Eglinton, instead of cleaning
the two sides of a slate, may have cleaned otle side twice, not turning the slate
over, but only appearing to do so; and even if the cleaning was complete, a
prepared slate may have been substituted for tbe one just cleaned.
Similarly, in Experiment 9.
Two slates held away from the table but below its level, by Mr. Eglinton
and Mrs. M. Verbal question by myself. "Can my father himself
give us some message? "-A., almost at once, .. Good-bye. He
can write no more., He sends you both his dear love."
I should suppose that the .. answer" was already upon the slate before
the question W8B asked, and was intended originally to serve merely as a
•• communication."
Possibly Eglinton firat held the two slates under the table alone and
wrote the "answer," and then, no BOund as of writing having been audible,
asked Mrs. M. to hold them with him as descri,bed. and Mr. M. to repeat his
question. But I prefer the first supposition; the assumed "answer" does
Digitized by Google
Su,pplement to the December Journal. 497
not appear to me to be of such a nature, considering the previous questions,
that it could not have been written beforehand, even if Mr. M.'I question
was spontaneous. If Mr. M. desired by his question to obtain a message
in his father's handwriting, the statement--" he can writu no more "-
would be' rather odd, inasmuch as he had not written at all. On the
supposition that the "answer" was on the slate before the queati('n was
asked, it was probably written while the sittera were studying the "communi-
cation of interest...
In Q. 6, as also in Q.'s 1, 2, and 3, I luppose that the slate was
written upon by Eglinton while it was under the table, and that in
the two cases where the questions were written, Eglinton acquired a
knowledge of them, also while the slate was under the table, notwithstand-
ing Mr. M.'s precautions. We do not know what the precautions were; and
if they had been exceptional, as in the use of a string by ProfeBBOr Lodge,
which seems to have prevented the turning of the slate, I think that Mr. M.
would have described them. In the case of Q. 4, Mr. M. himself apparently
concluded that, notwithstanding his careful watching, Eglinton acquired a
knowledge of the question writtcn on the slate.
In Q. 5, and Experiment 7, taken together, it is evident that the locked
slate, upon which Mra. M. had written a question, was held under the table
during six to eight minutes, and in this interval I suppose that Eglinton read
the question and wrote the answer. Mr. Murray says :--
No answer during six to eight minutes. It was then placed on surface
of table in front of UII, while we proceeded with other experimenta,
as Mr. Eglinton said he could hold it no longer on account of its
weight.
But he does not say that he then examitw the slate, and after recording
an intervening experiment he continues :-
Locked slate, still unopened, I having retained key all the time, was
held on upper surface of table. A., in two to three minutes, &C. ;
from which it appears that he did not then examine it. Mr. M.'s
description suggests that he, like most other witnesses, considered that the
writing was not in proceBB of production if the sound as of writing was not
audible. I infer from his report that he made notes during the sitting, and
to this I ascribe his careful reference to the fact that the locked slate was held
under the table, though he seems to have l?een unaware of its great sig-
nificance. I think there is little doubt that frequently, in CaBOB analogous to
this, where the locked slate may have been on the table for some time, within
the direct perception of the sittera, the fact of its having been pre"iously
tinder the table, and not subsequently examined, has been omitted from the
record- in consequence either of its apparent triviality, or its lapse from
remembrance at the time when the record was made.
In connection with Q. 4. there is a palpable lapse of BOme kind on'
Mr. M. 's part, but whether of his watchful readinesl during the sitting, or
his care in writing the report, or both, may not be BO easy to decide. His
account is as follows :-
(.,!. 4. Written, by Mrs. M. " Are O.'s present plans likely to lead to
his future welfare, and will they bring him happiness 7"- We had
Digitized by Google
498 Supplem.ent to the l)ece~r Jo-urnal.
to wait BOrne time for an answer to this question. Mr. Eglinton
asked aloud, after 2 to 3 minutes, "Will you kindly give us an
answer to this question 1" Directly afterwards he dropped the
slate on to the Hoor ; he picked it up and replaced it under fiap of
tablo. I watched him narrowly but could not see him look at the
message. However, after complaining of the weight of the slate.
he repeated his request· for an answer, but modified his worda.
" Will you kindly give us an answer to thue lJ1&e8tiotI41"- A., after
waiting five to six minutes, ".Aa fa.r as I can see. Yas. They
certainly Bhould."
He writes previously :-.
During the first four experiments I ma.rked the pieces of pencil used. and
carefully noticed the ends, before and after each experiment. Before.
they were rough and unwom ; after, they were found with one end
lying at the extremity of the finishing stroke of the writing, and
that end had a smooth wom facet which corresponded in size
with the thickne88 of the thicker strokes of the writing produced.
Except in answer to Q. 4, all writing took place in a poaition
upside down to Mr. Eglinton;and when the writing was short, at
the end of th", slate furthest away from him.
Q. 4 presents no difficulty as r;)ga.rds the reading of the question (or
questions--aee p. 464) and the production of an answer, as the slate was held
under the table by Eglinton alone ; and (".onceming the unusual position of
the answer, the reader may speculate for himself ; but what becanw: of tM
marked fragment ofpencil tvlWln the slate was dropped Y Was any remark made
as to its whereabouts 7 Was any search instituted for it 1 Did it mysterioualy
stick to the slate the whole time 1 Or, after the dropping. was the slate
placed on the table 1 Was it examined 1 Was another piece of pepcil noticed
and marked, and placed on the slate 1 Or, did Mr. Murray speak of four
experiments instead of three 1 And did he not mark a pencil for Q. 4' ADd
if BO, what became of the unmarked pencil 1 &c., &C. We should do least
violence to Mr. M.'s: report if we supposed that Eglinton was holding the
pencil when the slate dropped, and that this greatest ma.rvel of all, the re-
appearance of tho ma.rked pencil, excited no surprise, simply because it
never occurred to the sitters that tho pencil should have dropped as well as
the slate. A somewhat analogous oversight was committed by Mr. Hogg and
myself at our first sitting; it was one of the points which led us in our
report to comment upon our own inobservance. But if " Joey" could
demateriaJize the pencil (p. 439), poBBibly "Joey" might also patiently hold
the pencil in mid-air pending the replacement of the slate.
After the preceding considerations I may deal as briefly as possible
with tlle remaining reports, confining my rema.rks ~hiefly to the most
important incidents in each, and treating these fully only when they
are specially instructive, or require suppositions that may not occur a~
once to the ordinary reader unversed in the modi operandi of conjuring
performances in slate-writing.
Digitized by Google
StI,pplement to the lJeeemher Joornal. 499
Reports of 1\1.1. G. A. SliITH and Mr. J. MURRAY TSlll'LETO:S-.
At the litting in May, 1885, one writing was obtained, which consisted of
the words, "The power II against us"; and the sitters appear to have
regarded the "telt conditions" of its production as exceptionally good. Their
aatisfaction seema to depend upon their remembrance that in this particular
instance Mr. Templeton was himself preBSin~ the llate finnly against the
under side of the table-flap during the whole of i;he [last] interval when it
WB8 under the table; and I think it highly probable that their remem-
brance is true; for I suppose that the writing was already on the slate
when Eglinton las!; lifted it from the table. 'rhe slate was one of Mr.
Smith's book-slates, Ipoken of by Mr. Templeton as •• folded (and bound)
slates," and described by Mr. Smith as "a pair of ordinary slates fastened
together with cord up one side 10 that they could be opened and shut
but not separated entirely." Since they were fastened with cord, they
could in all probability be shut in two di1l'erent ways, 110 that what at
one time were the outer surfaces might at another time be the inner
surface.. Now it is clear, from the accounts, that no examination was made
of this llate immediately before Eglinton took it under the table for the last
time. I suppose that he had taken it under the table prevwu81y, and then
written upon it. Before the change of position, after which the writing was
"obtained," the litting had continued for three-qttarler8 of an holtr, during
which apparently Eglinton alone had been holding slates under the table,
and. as Mr. Smith tella UI,
occasionally changing one slate for another, and sometimes placing &.
slate upon the table with a crumb of pencil or crayon beneath it.
But no writing came, and we were on the point of giving up the
trial. It was suggested, however, that as a last rellource it might be
advisable to alter our pOlitions, and Mr. Templeton and I changed
placea accordingly. Mr. Eglinton then took one of my book-
slates, &C.
Weare not told how the sitters}mew that " no writing came." Doubtlesa
they heard no sound as of writing; they may have inlpected some of the
mates; they may have inspected aU of them, but if so they probably inspected
only the then inner surfaces-Eglinton having written on the under outer
lurface of the book-slate in queltion, which Eglinton afterwards folded the
other way, possibly just after the inspection, so that tbe writing, eventually,
occupied the position described by Mr. Smith.
I have already (JounioaZ for October, pp. 417-421) dealt with the moat
important incidents which are described as having taken place at the lIitting
of June 11th, 1885, of which Mr. Smith and Mr. Templeton gave indepen-
dent accounts. Among the other incidents are two, described by Mr. Smith
only, which call for some notice. A meuage had been obtained, but the
last word
appeared to have been very hastily and carelesBly written, and we were
uncertain what it was intellded for; 110 the slate was held beneath
the table again, with the request that this word should be re-written
DiQitizedbyGOOgle ./"
500 SU1>plement to the December JO'Urnal.
more legibly. Immediately we heard writing, and the word
" conditions" was found occupying nearly the whole width of the
alate.
Mr. Massey (Journal for July, p. 356) says: "Unl_ it is suggested that
the word was written on the reverse side to that of the sentence, and had
been previously prepl\red (the question being led up to by an intentional
illegibility of the lnst word of the sentence), we have here a case in which the
time of the actusl writing is OXl\ctly determined by the sound. The little
po88ible doubt in this cue," &c. I had already made the supposition myself in
my rough draft of notos on the evidence, -and I have little doubt that what
seems so improbable to Mr. Massey actually did occur. It has probably
happened frequently. Mr. Davey writes, in his report of the sitting of June
30, 1884: "On one or two occasions we had to request the messages to be
written over again, and this was always aBSented to" ; and a cue not alto-
gether dissimilar is recorded by MiBB Symons (p. 312), who tells us that there
was some discussion as to the indistinct writing, and that "Mr. Bglitdot.
&aid it could be easily settled by asking to have the meBMge re-written.
Almost as soon as the slate was put under the table came the answer," which
was not, however, the repetition of the me88&ge or of the indistinct word ;
Eglinton had apparently improved the performance by that timo (October.
1885), and the auswer carried with it a reference to the previous conver-
sation.
The other incident in Mr. Smith's account which deserves some attention
seems to me to be particularly suggestive. It is described as follows :
Eglinton took one of my book-alates, dropped a crumb of pencil
between the leaves, and closing it, placed it in the usual position. It
was then partly in sight, whilst we were chatting (and watching)
and waiting for something to come. In the midst of the talking I
thought I heard writing being done, and said so; but the others
thought I was mistaken, and we continued to wait. Presently Mr.
Eglinton dropped the slate upon the floor, and on his picking it up
we found" Good-night" written at the foot of one of the leaves.
I suppose it Wall the sound produced by Eglinton surreptitiously writing,
probably on the under surface of the uuderleaf, that Mr. Smith heard ; yet
the &ate apparefltly was not 1vithdm1(7n, a f1IQ8t Il'Ilipiciow circunutatl(18
(especially when we remember how ready Eglinton is to withdraw or
uncover or unlock a slate on other OCcasiOllS e\"en when no souud as of
writing has been heard by any of the sitters), presently followed by afWther
ll'Iupicio1UJ circmnBtanre, the drappillg of tlae slate. If, when Mr. Smith said
he thought he "heard writing being done," tho alate had been withdrawn,
-and, in consequence of his impre88ion, he might at any moment have
made a request for its withdrawal before Eglinton could find an opportunity
of reversely folding the alate,-the writing might hal'e been discovered on
the under outer surface, just where Eglinton's fingers had been. This seems
to have occurred to Eglinton, and hence the non-withdrawal and the
dropping. It is noticeable that Mr. Smith does not say on which leaf the
writing was found, or whether he had an.y means of identifying the position
the writing must have occupied while the alate was held by Eglinton. Apart
Digitized by Google
Supp'lernHnt to the DecemlJer Journal. 501
from some special means, it may, owing to the structure of the alate,
88Iuming this to be the aame as that used at ~e a6ance in May (see
p. 499), have been difficult to prove, after the dropping. on which of the sur-
faces, inner orouter, the writing had originally hoen produced.
Concerning the incidcnt mentioned (p. 303) by Mr. Templeton as having
occurred at .. a former sitting," which he explains at greater length in the
Joonwl for July, p. 359, where a alip of paper with a question on its under
aide was placed by himself on a alate and held there ,. till withdrawn as
another slate closed it down," the slates being described as thereafter''always
in the middle of the table," I suppose that the slates were held under the
table for a abort time by Eglinton, who then read the question and wrote
the answer,* but that this incident has been entirely forgotten by Mr.
Templeton, who has not mentiuned the date of the sitting, and whose letter
suggests that he is unaware to what extent accounts must be regarded as
untrustworthy in consequence of the lapse of memory.
Before leaving these reports I may deal briefly with the chief incidents
described in a report printed in the Journal, for May, 1885 (Vol. I., p. 399),
which I understand was sent by Mr. Smith. The first incident is narrated as
followa:
I bought a three-leaf book-alate on the way, one that had three loops
and could be fastened with a stick of pencil. as small pocket-
* The question was "How many days and months has the year?" The
answer was given, not in words, but injigures, 110 that they mi~ht possibly have
been completely covered by the slip, and not seen unl888 the shp was moved, if
the lower slate was, as it might have been, uncovered when Eglinton withdrew
the slates from under the table. Compare the case of writing under the cards
in the report of MissSymons (see pp. 4234). I may take this opportunity of
referring to some remark. made by Mr. Tem~leton in the Journal for November,
p. 470. He there offers an explanation "with regard to the incident of Mr.
Eglinton's copy of a drawing on a transparent, child's, or toy slate," upon
which I had commented in the Journal for October, p. 418. He says: "!\:Ir.
Hod~on seems to have overlooked the fR.Ct that any kind of drawing, under
the clrCumstancea, was much more than the ordina.ry writing," &c. I did not,
however, overlook this fR.Ct, and, indeed, I !luoted the ~e from Mr.
Templeton's letter in the Journal for Jnly whicli drew special attention to it.
The mere drawing could be produced on the slate, provided the slate and
Eglinton's fingers were under the ta.ble out of sight, even while the .. two close
o1:iservers," as Mr. Templeton describes himself and Mr. Smith, were gazing at
¥glinton's thumb visible and motionless above the table, and wiihout any
diStraction of their attention at all. My supposition was, that during an
interval of ten minutes the "two close observers" were for a few 86CQnd8
inattentive enough to enable Eglinton to use his eyes after the manner !\:Ir.
Templeton describes. In bygone years I revclled in the possession of a child's
drawing.slate, but not havingone at hand when I w&8considering Mr. Temple.
ton's testimon}", I made lome experiments in tracing on thin note-paper placed
over the drawmg of a leg held With one hand ullder the table, before making
my comments on the case; I concluded that "a few seconds" was a time
ample for the operation supposing it to have been one and continuous; if the
tracing produced was not one continuous line, the intervals of inattention need
not have been so great as I supposed, i.e., not even" a few seconds," a phrase
which Mr. Templeton now adopts. though he does not accept my supposition of
his inattention during such an mterval.
Digitized by Google
502 Supple7nent to the December J0'UrnaJ,.
books are often made. The first triala Mr. Egllnton made were with
his own alate, which I had previously cleaned, and marked with m7
name to avoid changing. With this nothing occurred. He then
took my slate, I having inserted a crumb of pencil and seen that it
was all secure. It was then placed on the comer of the table, and
we both rested our hands upon it. Shortly,in anawerto myqueatio~
" Are the conditions favourable 7" the pencil could distinctly be
heard writing inside the slate, and when the three tapa indicated
that the meaaage was finished, I unfastened the alate, and on one of
the leaves found, .. Yes, the conditions are very good."
Mr. Smith does notsay that he examined the slate throughout just before
the experiment, and he does not say what became of the crumb of pencil. or
on which leaf the writing was found. I suppose that the words were written
surreptitiously on the alate on some occasion after Mr. Smith entered the
house, and before the experiment was made. Eglinton himaelf
apparently inst,ituted the experiment, and I suppose that he suggested Mr.
Smith's question. The next incident; worth consideration is described
thus:
Mr. Eglinton has a strong mahogany book·alate with a Brahma lock.
On this 1 was req\1ested to write the name of a deceased relation,
mentioning the relationship, and asking a question. To make the
thing as conclusive a8 pcaaible. I took the alate into the adjoining
room, stood away from all mirrors, windoWll, &c., and wrote,
"Mrs. D--,-gmndmother-are you present, and able to com-
municate ?" I then quickly locked the alate, put the key into my
pocket, and went back to Mr. Eglinton, never once letting the
slate leAve my hand. He then placed another alate half under the
table, closely preaaed against the under.surface; in a few seconds
writing commenced, and t.he following was found :-" Your grand-
mother, Mrs. D--, is not able to write, but she sends her love."
I then, for the first time, unlocked the alate, and showed him what
1 had written.
Mr. Smith's phrase," ne.er once letting the alate leave my hand," seems to
me to refer to the interval which elapsed before he had actually reached the
table on his return, rather than to any subsequent interval. Whether this is
so or not, we have already seen (pp. 420-1) that Mr. Smith, in another
report, has unquestionably omitted any reference whatever to a moat
important incident, descriLing a sequence of events, with the incident omitted,
in much the same manner as in the above account; in cotmection with
the comment which I there made. I asked if I was not justified in assuming
that a witneaa may forget that the locked slate was taken under the table;
and I suppose, in the above instance, that the locked alate tM.! held under
the table after Mr. Smith returned, though he has not mentioned the fact.
I supposo also that the slate on' which the answer WI\S found was not held
throughout as lUr. Smith describes, but only during the latter part of the
time, probably after it had been 1I)itlldm11."n once by Egllnton, ostensibly
to see if there was writing, but actually to turn it unobserved.
Mr. Smith's report continues:
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the Dectmlher JO'Urnal. 503
At this point Mr. Eglinton was called away to two ladies, and I seized
the opportunity to write on the Brahma slate: "Frank G--, -
cousin-are you present, and able to write to me ¥" 'fhen I looked it,
and waited for Mr. Eglinton to return. Upon bearing what I had
done, he took a alate-the one marked with my name-thoroughly
cleaned it, with my help, threw a crumb of pencil upon it, covered it
with another clean one, and gave me the two to hold with him. We
were then sitting opposite to each other, each holding the two alates,
and right away from the table. In a second or two I could not
only hear the pencil, but could feel it writing,and could localise the
sound and vibration as undoubtedly issuing from between the two
slates. In one minuu at the most, the signal of completion was
given, and the underneath alate was found filled with writing, in
three directions, and signed "Frank." I have the alate now, with
the writing on it.
I forgot to mention that I always made a poinl of engaging Mr.
Eglinton in conversation during the time the writing W811 taking
place. I may also add that the communication purporting to come
from "Frank" does not strike me at all as being the BOrt of thing he
would write.
It is not unlikely that lit. Smith may have omitted to record sundry
takings of slates under the table, and on this hypothesis the reMer may make
his own suppositions. I shall myseU here adopt a different hypothesiR, partly
for the sake of pointing out a precaution which I cannot find that any sitter
has taken when Eglinton has been cmt oj the room, and partly for the sake of
showing how little inaccul!'cy it may be needful to suppose in the above
description. I shall assume, then, that while Mr. Smith was writing his
question, it was seen by Eglinton from a contiguous room. Mr. Smith tells us
that the alate on which the long meuage appeare.l was marked with hiB name,
but he does not say whether his mark was merely written on the slate, or
cut into the frame, or even specifically whether he recognised his mark when
the slate was taken, nor does he say whether his mark was upon the same
side as that upon which the writing was found. Knowledge of these pointe
might affect my conjecture as to Eglinl()n's exact dealings with the slates, but
it would not affect the main part of my supposition, which I shall make on
the assumption that Mr. Smith had written his name upon the frame of
the slate, that ho recognised, as he thought, his mark when Eglinton " took
a alate," and afterwards found it on the asme siele as the me8lll\ge and again
identified it. The slate, itshould be remembered, was one of Eglinton's, aud
Mr. Smith had marked it, not immediately before the experiment, but at
the beginning of the sitting. I suppose that Eglinton took it out of the
room, and wrote the meas.'Lge upon it, that he marked another slate similarly,
and brought them both back into the room when he returned. He then took
the falsely marked slate, cleaned it, &c., and covered it with the one which
Mr. Smith had originally marked, and upon the under, and marked, side of
which the long message was written. He then turned both slates overtogether
in the act of lifting them and presenting them to Mr. Smith to holti with
him, after which all that remained for hinl to do was to produce a sound as of
writing followed by a sound as of tapping. I desire the reader IIpecially to
Digitized by Google
5041 Supplement to the Decem1Jer J(J'IJ/f"Tw,l.
observe how little inconaistent my supposition is with Mr. Smith's account. I
might almost 88y that there is only one expreBBion of his which is at variance
with it, "iz., •'covered it with another clean one"; my supposition involves that
the under surface of this alate WRB filled with writing at the time when Mr.
Smith speaks of it as clean, but there is nothing, beyond the general
statement quoted, to show that Mr. Smith examined it in any way; he may
merely have looked at the upper surface, or Eglinton may have appeared to
tum it and show both sides,clesn before placing iton the otheralate.
Report of MB. E. M. C., &C.
The first incident that calls for conaideration is that of the writing in the
locked ~te, which was to the eft'ect that a folded paper whic."h Mr. E. M. C.
had placed unopened in the alate, was "a receipt of the Grosvenor Gallery
Library, No. 21380, in large figures, which was perfectly correct." But
since Eglinton held this slate .. several times on the table and ",wier the
tabZe," I need do little more than refer to the remarks of Mr. Lewis (Juumal
for August, p. 3'11), who suggests, in connection with another case, how the
alate might have been opened on the hinged side, although gummed paper
was stuck over the opening on the lock side, as in the case before us.
Besides,the paper used here was "the edge paper oft' BOme postage stamps";
this does not adhere firmly to varnished or polished wood, and can be quite
easily removed wholly or partially, without any risk either of tearing, or
of leaving apparent signs of disturbance. If the paper is stuck over the
opening of a polished double slate, but not affixed round both sides BO as to
form a clasp, the alate lIlI\y easily be opened and closed unless a great
deal of paper has been attached, withgut any touching of the paper
at all by the operator. The reader can experiment with a polished
box, and he will find that the adhesion of the paper does not put
very much difficulty in the way of its opening. A little pressure with
the finger may be neceBBary to make the paper adhere again. In any
case, and even when the paper is affixed as a clasp, it is easy to unfix
half the paper with the finger, open and close the slate, and refix the paper
by pressing it; no re-damIling is required to produce adhesion again if the
operation is performed not later than a few minutes after the original
attachment. By moistening the paper freely, aud adjusting it lightly, the
operation can of course be made casier, and it should be noticed that it was
Eglinton apparently in this case who suggested the gummed paper, and who
also stuck it on the alate. The report includes no reference to any examina·
tion of the paper and wood, before the unlocking of the slate, with the view
of ascertaining if the paper had been disturbed in any way. In the report,
after the passage quoted above, follow the words: "nothing came"; an
expression which I take to mean that no sound as of writing was audible, as
it seems clear that the alate was never opened-except by Eglinton under
the table-after the gummed paper had been applied, until the opening
which Mr. E. M. C. describes, when the gummed paper was cnt through
by Eglinton before he finished the unlocking whic."h Mr. E. M. C.
had begun.
The next incident is particularly interesting, because of the c."are with
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the December J0'Urna/,. 505
which, in some respects, the record haa been drawn up. It is plain that
Mr. E. M. C. is not familiar with the dift'erent methods used for deceiving
sitters for slate-writing, otherwise he could not have mentioned wli;hout
comment, pt'eciaely the three ptnuta aa to Eglinton's dealings with the
alates. which at once suggest the exact modus ~tldi in this incident.
These points are :
1. He put the initialed slate over the other and placed them before him
on the table.
2. He lifted the top slate from the bottom. [This is mentioned only
pArenthetically.]
3. Mr. Eglinton said" We must hold the slates." The slates were held
(pArt of the hand being between the alates and the table), &C.
For convenience, I shall speak of the two slates aa marked and unmarked
respectively. I suppose that the meaaage (from "Ernest ") had been pre·
pared beforehand, and was written on the under surface of the unmarked
alate. The account of the incident begins thus :
Mr. Eglinton then said he would try another experinlent. He took the
initialed alate, cleaned it, took from the table at the back one of the
other slates (which had all the time been lying there), he alao cleaned
that. [The italics are in the report.]
It is manifest that the writer believed, and I have no doubt rightly, that
the unmarked slate was then handled by Eglinton alone, who, I suppose,
cleaned only one-tho upper-side, though he may have appeared to clean
both. sides. Thus, wht'n Eglinton placed the alates before him, aa described
in (1), I suppose the writing t{) have been on the surface next the table.
After lifting the marked slate from the unmarked alate aa described in (2),
probably turning the marked alate over, Eglin1'On placed the unmarked slate
over the marked alate. (We are not told whether Mr. E. M. C.'s initials
were on the upper orthe uuder side ofthe " top " slate when originallyplaced
in position over the other ; and no reference whatever is made throughout
the report tt> the fragments of alate.pencil used.) The meaaage was then on
the under surface of the (then) t{)P slate. During the proceas described in
(3), Eglinton turned both slates over tt>gether, so that the marked slate was
aga.in at the top, and the unmarked alate again at the bottom, but r~etsed, 10
that the writing was then upcm. ita upper surface. • The trick would be clear
to an expert, though I have seen various intelligent witneases* who failed,
either from mal·observation or lapse of memory, or both, to record even such
obvioU8 clues to the modus operandi as we find in Mr. E. M. C.'s roport.
Concerning the sound of "writing," and cessation of the sound when the
circle was broken, see the report of Mr. Rait (quoted by Mr. Davey in
the Journal for January, 1887), and ProcwJ.itl;]s, Part X., p. 69.
In the last incident requiring notice,
Mr. Eglinton then took the initialed alate, which had been on the top
and held it under the table-<>n it waa quickly Written that
IOmeone was there-that someone being mentioned by his Christian
* See my reference, p. 491, to what Mr. Hog~ and myself suspected (after.
tea"'") to be an analogous incident at our own BlUing. .
2 K
Digitized by Google
506 Supplement to the December Journal.
name; he had died some 1[; years ago, was E. M. C.'s IOn, and his
Christian name could not pollibly have been known to Mr.
Eglinton.
the reader may suppose that the words'" were written either while the abte
W&8 held under the t&ble during the experiment, or just previously, while the
attontion of the sitters w&s engaged upon the lonl meaaage. We cannot feel
lure that Mr. E. M. C.'s conviction that the Christ.ian ruune given on the
alate "could not po88ibly have been known to Mr. Eglinton," w&s well
founded, even if we could be quite cert&in that the name bad not been
e&auallymentioned by one of the sitters during the very seance recorded.
Reports of MIss J. H. SYXON8, MRS. L., and MIL WBDGWOOD.
As Mill Symons appe&ra to ha.ve drawn up nearly the whole of these
reports (excepting Mr. Wedgwood's independent account of one sitting), a.nd
to have beeu the most import&nt witness, I sh&ll use her name in connection
with my remarks.
In the first report it might be supposed that in every caae the worda
which appea.red were written on the alate by Eglinton &iter he had t&ken it
under the t&ble for the experiment. But I think it more prob&ble that in
some C&8ea the writing w&s actually produced by Eglinron on the under
surface of the alate, while the prewli1"!J writing w&s presumed by Mill Symona
to be in course of production. The mod,... Dp/lTandi in such C&8e8 is, &iter
cleaning off the preceding writing, to repla.ce the alate with the other side
uppermost, i.e., the side cont&ining the "next" writing, not the side just
cleaned. Thus, Mill Symons 811.ys, &iter describing a preceding meaaa.ge :
I then &sked aloud if the "intelligence" would a.llow us to try lOme
test, and "Yes" w&s immediately written.
The Ye.s may have been already on the (second) alate when it W&8 pla.ced
under the t&ble for this experiment, having been written by Eglinton while
the sitters were noticing the answer to the first question ; and Mill Symon.
does not 811.y that the first slate w&s used again. The three l&at writings at
this sitting may likewise have anticipated the questions.
In relation to the "book-test" the reader should observe that Eglinton
held the book and the alate under the t&ble alone, for "abeut a quarter of an
hour," during which time he " appeared to be IOmewhat convulsed." While
the sitters were turning up the reference in the book, Eglinton may have
written the next melllage-" I am a guide of the medium "-unobserved, if
he had not written it earlier, this then becoming "a quick reply" to "om
question, c Who is the intelligence who h&s just communicated with us 7' "
In similar fashion perhaps" Joey" became "immediately written" in reply
to the question c. we next &sked, 'What is your name 1'" No reference
whatever is made to any examinations or cleanings of the slates after the
IMSance began, a st&tement which applies equally to the next record.
In the rePort of the sitting of September 24th, Mill Symons appe&ra to
* The wri'ing on the alate seems to have been in the form: .. is
here," the additional details given in the report being apparently the explanatory
remarks of Mr. E. M. C.
Digitized by Google
Supplem.ent to the December Journal. 507
have established the then inability of "Joey" to read Spanish or-possibly-
French. She describes ruso a writing in Eglinton's locked slate, in reply to
a question which Mrs. L. had written therein, and says: "\Ve locked this
slate ourselves, it WRS never removed from the table, or out of our sight for
one single instant." I suppose that this statement is erroneous, and that
the sitters forgot that the locked slate was held under the table by
Eglinton, who used the opportunity to read and answer the question,
after which he allowed it to rest a short time upon the table before producing
the sound as of writing. That lapses of this kind undoubtedly occur, and
that a conjurer's manipulations of the slates might not have been detected
by Miss Symons,* is sufficiently shown by the accounts of equally competent
witnesses quoted by Mrs. Sidgwick in Prooeetiing3, Part X., pp. 67-70; and
it may be worlJl pointing out that in reports which bear indications, in other
respects, of having been drawn up with much greater care than these of
Miss Symons, and which include experiments with the locked slate, the writers
mention that the locked slate was held under the table ; I refer in particular
to the reports of Mr. Harold Murray, Mr. E. M. C., &c., and Mr. F. W.
Bentall.
Concerning the next incident, where a "prompt reply" was obtained in
answer to a question by Miss Symons as to how she could "best develop" as a
medium (see p. 494, note), I suppose that the question was directly or
indirectly suggested by Eglinton, and that the "reply" was already on the
slate when it was placed on the table, having been written by Eglinton while
the sitters were absorbed in the previous communication. In relation to this
supposition, the account of the incident which followed is suggestive.
Whilst we were looking at the writing and the pencil, with which
apparently'it had been written, Mr.Eglinton again held a slate under
the table, and before we had time to put a question, writing was
heard. On Mr. Eglinten's withdrawing the slate we read ill the same
handwriting: "I do like you." We asked, verbally again: "Which
of us do you like 7" " Both," in large letters, and three times
underlined, was the immediate reply.
I do like you may have been written whilst the sitters were engaged 88
Miss Symon. describes, and Both may have been written on the under surfaces
of the slate while that "writing W88 heard," which Miss Symons auumed
to be the writing of I do like you, the alate being reversed 88 it W88 8jl8in
placed under the table, and the question suggested by Eglinton. I have seen
the operation perfonued repeatedly before intelligent witneues without
detection; and tl.at Miss Symons was Dot prepared for it, is, I think,
sufficiently obvious from the mere fact that she nel'er states whether any
meBBage on a single ordinary slate was obtained on the same Bide of the
slate as the preceding meBsage or not.
According to the next report (pp. 309, 310) a card and a small bit of
chalk, botll of which were brought and marked by the sitters, were placed
* There is, as I have shown (II., pp. 422, 423), some Blight independent
evidence in another instance, that Miss Symons omitted to record the taking
of the locked slate a 8econd time under the table.
2K2
Digitized by Google
508 Supplement to the December Jo-u"t"1U1l.
"between the pages of a book," which was held under the table by
Eglinton. A slate upon which Miss Symona had written a request " that the
word' watch' might be written on the card,"-a request not thenahoWD to
Eglinton,-was afterwards held under the table with the book.
After about a quarter of an hour, during which time the medium
appoared to be in great pain, he lifted the book, and we proposed
inspecting it ; on doing 80 we found that one stroke had been made
nearly halfway acroaa the card,-a broad steady stroke, not in the
least u though the chalk had rolled-and there was an indistinct
scribble in one comer, which on close inspection looks something
like a man seated on a mound I The nib of chalk was howevergone.
It is possible that it dropped out of the book during Mr. F4linton's
writhings ; it cerULinly did not do 80 whon the book was carefully
opened on the tablo, neither were we able to find it anywhere on the
floor. During this time Mr. Eglinton's thumb, and the comer of the
book had been always visible.
Miss Symons' supposition that it dropped out of the book would
be rather an extreme one to make if we regard as correct another
statement made by Miss Symons, viz., that" during this time [about &
quarter of an hour] Mr. Eglinton's thumb, and the comer of the book
had been always visible." If Miss Symons had made exper,ment. before
conjecturing what became of the nib of chalk, she would probably
have found that under the conditions which she describes, it would
be much easier for Eglinton to seize the nib of chalk and mark the
card, than for the nib of chalk to have dropped out of the book. Poaaibly,
on this occasion, the proposal for inspection was not made by Eglinton, 'Who
may have intended, when he lifted the book, to disencumber himself of the
slate, and again take the hook alone' under the table ; but as the absence of
the chalk was noticed, the best idea that occurred to him was to •• de-
materialise" it, and leave the explanation of its disappearance to the sitters.
In connection with the second trial, we should note the observation that
Eglinton "during his writhings had supported the hook with his whole hand,
his wrist only ·being visible."
The next reports (of the sitting of Oct. 8th) have already been considered
(II., pp. 422-426), and l need only add that Miss Symons does not say where
she found the nibs of chalk when she ll1ade her examinations, or where they
were found at the conclusion of the experiment.
The first message-" I DO like you "-which Mias Symon. obtained at the
sitting described on p. 312, lJIay have been on the slate when Eglinton first
held it under the table, and the special remark she made, with which she
connected the message, may have been led up to by Eglinton. This suppo-
sition will not appear inlprobable if we remember that her remark referred to
a message received at one of her previous sittings. As for the writing which
followed, in reapolll8 to the request for a repetition of the message, see
p.500.
Concerning the tranaference of a card out of Eglinton'. locked slate into
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the December JournaZ. 509
Eglinton's red glau box, doacribed pp. 313, 314,-see the article hy Mr.
Lewis (II., pp.370, 371), to whOle remarks I may add that a favourable
opportunity for Eglinton to Blip the card out of the alate might have been
eaaily obtained while the glau box was being inspected, owing to the
proposal .. by one of us"-in this case, I suppose, Eglinton-" that we
should just see whether anything had occurred.II The long mellllllge obtained
at the same sitLing I suppose to have been prepared beforehand, the poBBi-
bility of which Mias Symons heraelf would apparently not dispute. She
writes:
I wish to say that I did not, in this case, take:the slate in my hand,
and absolutely convince myself that there was no writing on either
side of it before it was held under the table, but I certainly Bato
none as Mr. Eglinton took it up. It was, I must say alao, to the
beat of my belief, one of the two alates which we had used through-
out the seance, on which questions had several times been asked,
and which I had previously aaaured myself were clean, though I did
not upeciaUy observe at this particular moment.
The next and last incident l'tlCorded by Miss Symons is the fol\owing :
Another alate was now held under the table-the same on which we had
previously put the watch, and which I am absolutely certain was
clean on both sides-in case there should be anything further to
communicate. In this case, as before, the writing came almoat
immediately, "Good-bye, dear Mias Symonds, I will try your box
BOme day."
Taken in connection with her previous remarks, the reader may think
that Mias Symona means here to imply that she took the alate in her hand
immediately prior to the experiment, and convinced herself that there was no
writing on either side of it; he may then suppose that the meaaage was
written by Eglinton after he held the alate under the table. I should myaelf
however suppose that Mias Symons did not take the alate in her hand at that
time and examine it, but only that ahe previomly examined it,* and that
Eglinton wrote the meaaage while the sitters were gazing at the "striking
manifestation" which tlipy had just received.
Reports oj MR. H. WRDGlVOOD.
The moat important incident mentioned by Mr. Wedgwood is the pr0-
duction of writing between two alates which he had sealed together. For a
diacuBBion of this incident, see Mrs. Sidgwick's article in the Journal for
December, 1886.
Concerning the nextincident nanated, Mr. Lewis remarks (p. 372): "Mr.
Wedgwood's account of writing produced on a card in a book, i<kfl.tifod ~ a
comer Unn offit, looks very like a new version of a familiar conjuring trick" ;
and 1 may refer to Proceedingll, Part IX., p. 269, for a suggestion of the
modUli operandi. It is true that Mr. Wedgwood Mya:
.. Miss Symons appears to be particularly liable to that form of memory-
illusion which I have called transposition, in recordmg sittings for slate-writing.
See the report quoted by Mr. Davey in the Journal for January, 1887.
Digitized by Google
510 SupplerMnt to the Duemher Journal.
He gave me a blank card, from which I [italica mine] tore of[ a comer,
and put it in my pocket.
Nevertheleu, I suspect that the comer was tom of[ by Eglinton. The
event 8eems to have occurred in the autumn of 1883, and Mr. Wedg-
Wood'8 account is dated September 27th, 1885. We cannot place reliance
upon the detailB of an account written 80 long afterwarda. And comparison
with another account by Mr. Wedgwood which appeared in Light of March
28, 1885, is enough in itaelf to show that Mr. Wedgwood may easily
deacribe himself as having performed an action which was really performed
by Eglinton. In Light he eaY8 :
It was in the autumn of 1883, BOon after Mr. Eglinton had moved to Old
Quebec-8treet. I was one of a party of eight, Bitting round the
table, with the gas full on. Mr. Eglinton gave me a blank card,
from which I tore of[ a comer and kept it in my pocket. He put the
card in a book, together with a morsel of black lead,and, turning to
a 8itter on hi8 right, laid the book on the table, with both their
handa on it. As nothing enaued, Mr. Eglinton removed the book,
an~ laid it between him and me, and we placed our banda on it.
Comparing the two accounta it will be found that in the March account
-" He [Eglinton] put the card in a book" j in the September account.-
" The card • • • was then put inaide a book."
In the March account-" Mr. Eglinton removed the book, and laid it
between him and me." In the September account-_U He took the book
away and gave it to me. I [Mr. Wedgwood] laid it on the table."
In the next incident (which I gather did not occur at the aame seance),
the drawing of a female figure on a card placed in Eglinton'8 locked 8late. we
might 8Uppoae that the locked alate was taken under the table to enable
Eglinton to mark and 8ubstitute a second card on which the drawing had
been previously made j or we might suppose that Eglinton had this second
card in his hand, and imitated Mr. Wedgwood's initials and smrJl mark,
which I understand was a lit.t1e circle, while Mr. Wedgwood was actually
engaged in making the mark, and that he placed this between the slates
inatead of the one which Mr. Wedgwood had just initialled. It is not im-
probable that the initials were made by Mr. Wedgwood at the suggestiun of
Eglinton, who may have had initials already on the card with the drawing,
so that only the addition of the circle may have been required.
The next "operation," described by Mr. Lewis(p. 371)&8 "thereproduc-
tion of Mr. Wedgwood's penknife (embezzled by the' spirita ' on a childish
pretext at a previous materialisation seance) within the folding-slate, and the
diaappearance of a piece of paper therefrom," needa no further comment.
The three cases, at three different Bittinga, of the " book-test" described
in Mr. Wedgwood's next account, are easily explicable, as the book and slates
were held under the table in each case. In the first and third cases Mr.
Wedgwood observes that the time of waiting was considerable j in the
8econd caBe apparently the time of waiting WI\8 much less. It is therefore
worth noticing tbat in the second caBe Eglillton "held one of hie own slates
under the flap, inatead of Captain James'," whose slates, a special folding
Digitized by Google
SuppleTMnt to the December JO'/J/rnal. 511
pair perhaps not eaay to manipulate, had been used in the tirat case; in the
third case a folding pair of Mr. Wedgwood's was used, which he says he tied
" tinnly together with a double turn of strong twine." I may remark that
a double turn of twine is sometimes easier to slip oft'(with one hand or two)
than a single turn ; for the longer the string, the greater the amount of
extension, and thiB may be applied to ODe tum at a time. One pa.BB&ge in
Mr. Wedgwood's description of the firat case deBOrveB a brief comment.
At tirat I sat next to Eglinton, but as a considerable time elapBOd with-
out any signs of writing, Eglinton auggested that Jamea and I
should change places, and the table seemed to &how ita appronl of
the change by much violent jumping about. Soon afterwarda
Eglinton, finding hiB hand cramped by h.)lding the alates so long
under the table, asked J amea to join with him in holding them; and
before putting them beneath again he opened them to BOe whether
anything was written, when I saw that there was not. After this
the alatea were held by Eglinton and JameB under the flap, and
were not brought up again until the writing was accompliahed, so
that it muatl have been done while JameB had hold of the alatea, and
he avera that he held the closed alate& the whole time up against
the flap in auch a way as to make it impoaaible to write on them
from without in any way.
All that we need auppose here ia a slight traDBpoBition in the BOquence as
regarda the opening of the alate&, alld I suggest the following amendment,
which seemB otherwiBC, moreover, to repreBCnt a somewhat more appropriate
order of eventa than Mr. Wedgwood's account.
. • approval of the change by lUuch violent jumping about.
During the change Eglinton held the slate and book above the table,
and before putting them beneath again he opened the slatea to BOe
whether anything was written, when I aaw that there was not. Soon
afterwarda, Eglinton, finding hiB hand cramped by holding the
slate& so long under the table, asked James to join with him in
holding them. James did so, and avera . • . .
On this supposition the word was found by Eglinton during the "con-
aiderable time" before the change of seata, and afterwards written by him on
the alate before he asked Captain James to join in holding them.
Rep(Yf'ts of MR. E. T. BENNETl', Ma. O. R. VICARS, ~c.
I ahould, I think, have judged these reporta, from intAmal evidence, tobe
exooptionally free from some of the forms of memory-illuBion to which I
have drawn attention, and I underatand that Mr. Bennett took shorthand
notes during the Bittings. The reporta require little comment, as it BOema
that in every case where writing was obtained, the alate or alate& had been
held under the table by Eglinton alone; and in this connection a statement
made at the end of the firat report calls for special attention.
While the writing* was going 011, part of Mr. Eglinton's thumb holding
the slate was always visible, and generally the end of it was on the
top of the table. This was specially noticed.
• At the beginning of the report Mr. Bennett spoke mere cautiously,
aaying-" a sound as ef writing."
Digitized by Google
512 Supplement to the December JO'Urnal.
I think it is to be inferred from this that Mr. Bennett obeerved that there
were occaaiona when the end of Eglinton's thumb was 'lOt on the top of the
table.
I shall quote the detaila of one incident given in the first report. ebie1ly
to illustrate Mr. Bennett's use of the word immediately, and the phrase flO
rutllt.
The twoslates, being seen to be quite clean, were then placed togethery
with a bit of pencil between them ; and the question asked whether
Mr. V. would get any more writing himself. No result following
immediately, Mr. Eglinton drew the slates from under the table
and held them at ann'lIlength just at the book of Mr. V.'s neck.
No result following immediately, and the position being rather
tiring, Mr. V. said, "You can reat them on my head if you like."
Almost immediately thesound of writing was heard between the
slates. It is inconceivable to Mr. V. and Mr. B. that there could be
any doubt as to the place from which the BOund of writing came. On
ita ceasing and the slates being examined, at the end of the lower
one farthest from Mr. Eglinton, were the words: "You will have
other writing. Pationce."
Now it; might be supposed that the question was suggeslied by EgIinton,
that no complete examination of both slates was made by the sitters imme-
diately prior to tile experiment, that the writing was already on the under
surface of the upper slate, antl that both slates were reversed together by
Eglinton while in the act of placing them "at the back of Mr. V.'s neck.It
But we might also suppose that the answer was written by Eglinton nfter he
placed the slates under the table. since Mr. Bennett; by the phrase "no
result" apparently meana no alldible 1IOU1Id (U of writin.g ; and we may fairly
aasume the phrase "following immediately" to imply an ilMrval quite long
enough to give Eglinton opportunities of writing the meuage, since in the
next sentence it implies a sufficient interval for a position to be found
tiring.
Report of 'MR. F. W. BBNTALL.
The first; writing received by Mr. Bent&ll was on one of Eglinton's alatea
which Mr. Bentall had marked. Eglinton
held it with the marked side uppermost under the flap of the
table with his right hand, his thumb appearing above tho table.
He then placed his left hand on F.'slefthand, F.'s right hand' being
held in both mine. This is the ordinary mode of obtaining phen-
omena and will hereafter be referred to as .. the usual way." In
this particular instance F.'s left hand assislied to hold the slate up
to the table. This however is not customary. When the slate
was in position I requested that the word" Heybridge" should
be written on the marked side of the slate, &C.
I suppose that Eglinton held the slate alone for some time, during which
he wrote upon the alate, afterwards requesting F. to aasist in holding it;
and this supposition is even suggested by the first part of Mr. Bentall'.
description.
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the December Jourool. 513
The long mesaage obtained at the next sitting I suppose to have been
prepared beforehand i Mr. Belltall does not say that he took any precautionB
to prevent the use of a previously prepared slate. (These statements may
alao be made concerning the long meaaage received at the Bitting of
May 28th.)
The deacriptions of the later sittings are said to be .. recounted from
notes made after each sitting." It would be interesting to compare t.hese
notes with what I presume to be the fuller descriptions in the report. Some
of the omiaaioDB which I have to suppose, might poBBibly be due to the fact
that the complete report of OIIoCh sitting waa not made immediately after-
wards. Thus, Mr. Bontall describes an incident at the sitting of May 8th aa
follows, the two slates used being his own :
After Bitting some time with this closed slate with no result, we
suggested that we might perhaps get writing between our other two
slates. These I took out of their CAlle and placed on the table.
Between them I put a small square piece of slate-pencil newly
fractured at each end, and then handed them to E., who took them
by one corner in his right hand, F. holding the opposite corner in
his left hand. E. then placed his left hand on F.'s left, and F.'B
hand I held in both mine. I then aaked why our closed BIates could
not be written in. A acratching. apparently between the slates,
waa BOOn heard, followed by three tapa. E. at once removed his
hands, and F. laid the slates on the table. On removing the top
slate we found the words "There is 110 power" written on the
upper surface of the bottom alate under where F.'s thumb had been.
The slates were held above the table in full view all the time, and
the pencil waa abraded at one corner aa if with writing.
I suppose that Eglinton first held the slates under the table, and wrote
the worda, and then, no BOund aa of writing having been heard, held them
above the table, and aaked F. to hold them with him.
At the sitting of May 12th, a triangle, at the request of Mr. Bontall, was
obtained underneath a tumbler .. inverted over a piece of pencil on a clean
alate" held under the table by Eglinton. Mr. Bontall says:
We BOOn heard scratching, and both suddenly looked under the table
thinking we might seethe pencil in motion. .F. saw it fall directly
he looked at it, I saw nothing on account of the light shining on
the surface of the glBBB. On raising our heads the acratching
recommenced and finished with three taps. E. then lifted the slate
on to the table, and underneath the tumbler we saw the figure of a.
triangle. In the centre of one side waa a break in the line aa if the
stroke had been interrupted.
I suppose that the triangle, with the break in one Bide, waa drawn before
the sitters looked under the table, and. that they looked under at the sugges-
tion of Eglinton. F. may have aeen the pencil in motion-it can scarcely
have fallen very far- i but the movement of the pencil could have
been produced by Eglinton (see the accounts of Mr. Rait, Mr. Limmer, &c.,
in the Joo'n'llil for January, 1887). In the deacription of the .. book·test "
obtained at the same sitting Mr. Bontall says:
Digitized by Google
514 Supplement to the December Journal.
F. went to the bookcaae and took out a bock at random. This he placed
without looking at it, together with a piece of alate pencil on "
clean slate held by E. underneath the table. 1 then made a verbal
request, at the same time writing it on a slate. ..Please wrii;e the laat
word of the third line on the fifty-first page of t.he book under the
table," and at E.'s suggestion also asked that the name of the book
might be also written. The word, line, and page, I put down as I
happened to think of them at the time, after the book was under
the table. This second slate was placed abolve the book and we then
took up our usual positions, F. holding the slates as well as E.
as in our first experiment. We soon heard the scratching and the
taps.
Weare not told that the second slate was placed under t.he table imme·
diately after Mr. Bentall had finished writing his request; and we rna,
suppose-since Eglinton had previously taken the other slate and the book
under the table, and Mr. BentaU had made his request verbally, as well as
by writing-that Eglinton found the word and wrote the answer before the
second slate was placed above t.he book by(-I should suppoae-),and at the
suggestion of, Eglinton.
The only other incident worth noting occurred at the sitting of May 13th,
and is described as follows:
We brought with us a sealed em'elope containing a paper on which
certain WONS had been written by a third person, we nnt knowing
what they were. This we put with a piece of pencil hetween two
of E.'s clean slates on the table, and 1 then took E.'s Bramah
locked book slate and wrote in it the following question, taking
care that E. should not see what was written: "Will you kindly
copy thl' figure below" (I had drawn a CroBB on the slate under the
question) "between the slates held by Mr. Eglint...n" (those con-
taining the envelope), "or better still write the words on the paper
inside the envelope on one of these slates 1" 1 then locked the
slate and kept the key in my hand. We sat in our usual order, E.
sometimes holding the locked slate abeve or below the table, BOrne-
times the other two slates. His left hand was always in F.'s
custody. Finally he rut all the slates in a pile on the table, the
locked slate being uppermost.
Eventually, on examining the slates, after the "scratching BOund and
the tapa," the sitters saw that .. the crOBB was copied on the bottom slate" ;
the envelope was found in the locked slate. For this performance it was
only necessary that Eglinton shvuld (I) abstract the envelope from between
the two slates (which he seems to have been holding-probably under the
table-while Mr. Bentall was writing on the locked slate) and place it, 88Y,
between his knees; (2) take the locked slate under the table, read the
request and insert the envelope; (3) take the two slates under the table and
draw the crOBB. 1 aBBume that if Eglint.'n wish..d to avoid the risk involved
in manipulating the slates or the envelope above the table. it was probably
neceBBarY that either the two slates, or the locked slate, should have been
held at least twice under the table; necessary, that is to say, for the trick
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the D~mber Journal. 515
phenomenon ; I do not mean nece888l'Y for such a phenomenon il it were
genuine. And that this probably neceBll&l'Y condition of Eglinton's perform-
ance was Batisfied is, I think, sufficiently plain from Mr. BentaU's statement
that Eglinton sometimu held the Zocked &late above or below the table, some-
timu the other two 1IZatu.
Report qf PROFESSORS WAGNER, BOUTLEROF, and DOBROSLAVIN.
The "book-test" incident described in this report is the only one
requiring special mention. The book used was an English book, .. a small
volume of 130 pages in a linen binding."
Mr. Eglinton, on seeing the book, but without touching it, proposed to
try an experiment which he had made elsewhere. Handing a slate
to Profe8BOr Boutlerof, he requesSed him to write the number of a
supposititious page, Profe880r Wagner the number of line, and
Profe8Bor Dobroslavin the number of a word. This was done, and
the slate was laid upon the table upside down without Mr. Eglinton
having seen the figures. He next took another clean slate, and
putting it under the table, asked if it were likely the proposed
experiment would be succe8Bful. After some minutes, writing and
the three raps were heard, and on the slate was found the word
" Yes... The medium then laid upon this slate the English book
and the sealed envelope, and placed it under the table as before,
his right thumb remaining above the table. His left hand was
clasped in that of Professor Boutlerof, as in the previous experiment.
After a rather long interval of, Bay, fi\"e minutes, no writing was
obtained. Mr. Eglinton withdrew the slate twice, but nothing was
found upon it. He then put it upon the table with the book and
the envelope, both resting in the Bame position, and took the papier-
macM slates provided by Profe880r Boutlerof, placing between them
a fresh piece of slate-pencil; at the diagonal cClmers he tightly
screwed the slates with small bra8B thumb-screws, and held them
with his right hand, fastened in the manner described, upon the left
shoulder of Profc880r Boutlerof.
* * * * * *
When the slatAs were unscrewed by this gentleman, on the upper surface
of the lower slate was found written in a firm and legible writing :
"The word is compound chimney-glass." • • • The crumb of
pencil on examination was foum1 to be worn at one comer, and the
lower surface of the upper slate, pressed as it was upon the pellcil,
was without a mark of any description.
Various suppositions will doubtle8B occur to the reader as to Eglinton's
exact dealings with the slates ; and it will suffice il I gi\"e the details of only
one of these. Eglinton might have inferred, from the sound made and the
movement of hand or pencil, what figures were being written upon the slate ;
hut I will aSBume that he did not know the figures when the slate on which
they were written was placed writing downwards on the table. The three
points of the trick were (1) To read the numbers on the slate, (2) To find
Digitized by Google
516 Supplement to the Decem,'ber J0'U'1"1UJl.
the word specified, (3) To write the answer. Now it appears that the sitters
had provided two sealed slates, two papier-ma.cM slates, and three common
school slates, and I infer that all these slates-a complicatirJD particulariy
favourable for a conjurer-were lying on the" ordinary card-table" round
which the party were seated. No mark of any kind is stated to have dis-
tinguished the slate upon which the numbers were written, and I IIUPpose
that Eglinton took this slate unrler the table for lIome time with the book,
putting, meanwhile, another in its place on the table. I shall suppose that he
did this after the first of the two withdrawals <at which times I suppose the
slate and book to have been placed on the table, and the book lifted for the
slate to be inspected). which were apparently made during the "rather long
interval of. say, five miuutes," and that on the occaaion of the second with-
drawal he re-changed the slates-having. in the interval between the two
withdrawals, read the figures and discovered the word. Such a substitution
and re-substitution as 1 have supposed can be accomplished by an expert
without detection, unless the attention of the witnesses is specially directed
--as it evidently was not, in the instance before us-to guarding against such
a procedure. Further, I suppose that Eglillton, after having found the
word, seized an opportunity to write the answer on one of the papier-
ma~M slates, an operation which could have involved little difficulty,
since the attentiun of the sitters had probablynever been given at all to these
until Eglinton openly took them and screwed them together; he may have
slipped one of them below the table for the purpose of writing upon it,
though this was perhaps unneceBBar)'. It is noteworthy that it was
apparently Eglinton himself who took the initiative in all the preliminary
dealings with the slates used in this experiment; and it was he who took the
papier-macklslates, and placed between them "a fresh piece of slate-pencil."
I suppose this piece of pencil to have boen already" wom at one comer"
when it was inserted ; no IIpecific examination of it then is described; indeed,
(reM may be intended to signify merely that it was not the piece (if there
was a piece) used in the preliminary trials under the table. Finally, it Beems
plain that the papier-ma~M slates \Vere not examined by anyone immediately
before Eglinton took them to screw them together; and at this stage I
suppose that the answer was on the under surface of the upper slate, both
slates being afterwards reversed together in the proce811 of screwing and
placing them on the shoulder of ProfeB80r Boutlerof.* I may add that
Mr. Lewis evidently attaches little inlportance to this incident; aee his
remarks in the Journal for August, 1886, p. 369, note.
• The remaining incidental in this report are thus described :-
After this; in answer to the question as to whether writing could subse-
quently be produced between the sealed slates. the reply was "Yes,"
au~rapbiCa.lly written upon a common slate in the ordinary way;
and lDstead of an answer being obtained to another qUel!tlon, the
words" Good-bye" were written upon the slate in bold characters.
I quote this because, according to Light, September 25th, 1886, a condensed
account of this sitting of the RUBllian professors appears to havo been gi"en in
.Ncue Spiritualisti8cM Blatter,ilie"priucipal occurrences" ouly being mentione<l;
the following translation is given in Liglit:-
At the first of these seances direct spirit writing was obtaine<l in sealed
ordinary slates and in cardboard slates, tightly screwed together, be-
Digitized by Google
Supplement to the DecembeT JO'Urnal. 517
Report 0/ MR. ANGELO J. LEWIS (" Professor Hoffmann").
Mr. Lewis had two littings with Eglinton (both of which were blank,-
see p. 373) before the tIln mentioned in his report. At each of the twelve
sittings he asked for a word (figures on one occasion) to be written, the word
being suggested by himself on the spur of the moment.
The slate was held under the table by Eglinton in his right hand, in
what he stated to be his usual manner, the thumb being sometimes
above and BOmetimes below the table; hut the thumb and comer of
the slate were alwaya visible, at any rate to the peraon sitting next
to Mr. Eglinton. No special teat or condition was suggested (until
the last two sittings), my primary object being to get /KlIne positive
result which should serve as a starting point for more minute in-
vestigation.
Nine sittings, including the two which Mr. Lewis had had previously,
were blank. At the tenth sitting, October 15th, 1885, the word which Mr.
Lewis had asked for at that sitting was obtained. 1'he sitting is described as
follows:-
October15th, 1885. Sat with Mr. Marcus H. Lewis, from 4.30 to nearly
6 p.m. I asked for the word" unpalatable "to be written, and after
sitting for about 40 minutes, as it began to grow dusk. Eglinton was
seized with the customary "shivering," a BOund ofwriting was heard,
and on thealate being drawn from under the table,and the gas lighted,
the required word was found written upon iii, in a faint scrawly
handwriting, and one angle of the little piece of pencil which had
been put upon the slate was found to be abraded. The position of
the word (very close to the frame at the opposite end of the slate,
and with the topa of the letters to the medium) was precisely that
longin« to Profeaaor Butlerow. Morsels of pencil had been previously
inserted and the slates marked by all the profe88ors present.
Professor Dobroatawin [sic] took from hisJIOCket a book, Bernay'8 Chemistry.
The book was not shown to Mr. Eghnton, and from this book, without
looking in it, ProfeaaorButlerow selected the forty-sixth~, Professor
Wajpler the twelfth line, and Profe88or Dobrostawin the fifth word to
be given. The slate with the question written upon it was laid upon
the table with the writing downwards. Mr. Eglinton took the card-
board slates, laid them ullOn Professor Butlerow's shoulder, and writing
was BOOn heard, followed by threesoft tajlll inside the 8lates. The latter
were opened and these words were found written, .. The word is com-
pound-'chimney-:gI8.118.' ". • . • When the sealed double
slates were opened, the words II Good·bye" in large letters were found
written.. • • •
I do not think it will often happen, in the case of a bond .fide witne88, that
writing obtained on an ordinary: slate is described, after two or three months
have elapsed, as having been obtained between sealed double slat-es ; this mis-
take is probably due to a mistranslation by the" condenser." But the deliberate
omission, on the ground, I suppose, of their presumed unimportance, of
Eglin~n's preliminary dealings with the book andllates, wwhich Ihave drawn
attention, and which offer cluesfor an explanation of the modus operandi of the
trick,-is typical, I believe, of the treatment to which the evenis of a sitting
haye been more or 18111 lubjected by the witnesses themselvell, in the vas'
majority of Spiritnaliaticrecorda.
Digitized by Google
518 Supplement to the December Jou/Mwl.
which it would mC'St probably have taken if the slate had been
secretly turned round in its own plane, and the word written by the
medium himself, but there W&8 no evidence in support of such a
supposition. My brother, who 'W&8 seated next to Eglinton, and WI8
able to command a view of the corner of the slate, did not observe
any suspicious movement. On my remarking to Eglinton the
possible inference from such a position of the writing, he said that
this W&8 the most frequent position, but that it would also appear
in any other position, 18 might be called for. We I8t for half-an-
hour longer, but without result.
N.B.-My reason for selecting the word" unpalatable" W&8 that the
same word had appeared, but with a redundant 11 (unpalateable), in
a long meBBage procured at a sitting a few days before by Mesara.
Herschell and Sachs. I W&8 curious to see whether the misspelling
W&8 repeated, and found that it 1Ca8 110, in the word &8 written for
us.
Mr. Lewis seems to have thought it p088ible that Eglinton turned the
slate in its own plane and wrote upon it himstllf, the weakness of the light
being specially favourable for such an operation without detection. I am
however inclined to prefer another supposition. In correcting the proof of
his report Mr. Lewis made the following addition, which unfortUIl3tely was
received too late for insertion :
Eglinton had in the course of the sitting, shortly before this, twice
dropped the slate on the floor.
I understand that Mr. Lewis added this after reading the other reporta
printed in the JQurnal for June, proofs of which had been sent to him for
his opinion on the e\·idence, and his consideration of which led him to think
that the dropping .. may have had more significance than 'he' at first sup-
posed." Now as regards these two droppings, various hypotheses may be
suggested. The word may actually have been written by Eglinton after the
second dropping, in the way suggested in the report, and the two droppings
may have been due to the fact that Eglinton had at least twictl previously
lowered the slate for the purpose of writing on it, when the attention of one or
both of the sitters became again concentrated on the slate, which Eglinton at
once dropped, to avoid the pOBBible observation that he had purposely lowered
it enough to write upon it. I should rather suppose, however, that he dropped
it on the first occasion in order to see whether Mr. Lewis would then take it
into his hands and examine it carefully, look for the piece of pencil,
examine and mark a fresh piece, &c. Finding that Mr. Lewis did not take the
initiative in this way (&8, I need hardly say, it was not his cue to do, whether
he supposed Eglinton's phenomena to be genuine or fraudulent, sinea his object
W&8, in his own words, "to get lOme positive result which should serve as
a starting point for more minute investigation "), Eglinton then wrote
upon the under surface of the slate, and then dropped it again, picked
it up, perhaps even 'carelessly' showed bot.h sides of it, trusting that
the "faint scrawly" word would not be seen in the imperfect light,-
and placed the prepared piece of pencil on it &8 he put it again, writing
upwards, under the table. I should suppose that he next waited long
Digitized by Google
Supplement to tlte December JOU1'lUll. 519
enough, as he thought. to a".,id giving the impre88ion to Mr. LI'wis that the
writing was connected in any way with the ,lropping, and then 11l"Nlucell the
"shivering" and the sound as of writing. This droPl'illg of the slate
appeared to me to be so important as a po88ible inlli('.atiun of trickery, that
I wrote to Mr. Lewis on the subject, suggesting that the wflnl may have
been written by Eglinton on the under side of the slate bef(lre the dropping,*
and that the sla.te was reversed by E6linton as he replaced it under the flap.
Mr. Lewis said in his reply: •• On the &B8umption that the word was writteu
by Eglinton himself, I think your theory ill as likely as any to be the correct
one." In a later letter Mr. Lewis wrote :
"In reply to your inquiries, E. twice dropped the slate during the
• unpalatable' sitting; but the first occasion was a~ an early period
of the seance, and certainly had no bearing on the writin:;. save that
E. remarked that he had had several sittings that day a'ld tbat hiB
haml was very tired, This of course might be to pave the way for
the second •drop.' To the best vf my recollection th" second •drop'
was BOrne six or eight minutes, or more, before the actual production
of the writing, and I did not in my own mind, connect the two
things, though it is of course quite p088ible that there may have
been an intimate connection between them."
Mr. Lewis thus admits the po88ibility of my explanatiun.
But my readers may 8I\y: Why should I thus trouble myself to explain
an incident for which Mr. Lewis has already suggested a rationalistic
explanation. and to which no one attaches any importance as e"idenco of
" occult" writing 1 I have done BO in order to show once more that we
may be justified in &B8uming, in the consideration of accounts of a slate-
writing seance, that important clues to an explanation have been omii.ted.
Suppose I had, with only the original report of Mr. LIl"is before 111e, as
it appeared in the JOllrllal for June, suggested that IJCrhapa Ihe slate had
been twice dropped and replaced without any minute inspection of :t. and that
in this dropping might be found the clue to the Lrick, should I not have been
regarded by many as doing at least as much violence to his report lUI to that of
any other report which I have commented upon 1 No doubt if Mr. Lewis had
thought the manifestation of ILny ,'a!ue •in a scientific sense,' his report
would have included a reference to many details which are not mentioned
in any way. Still, if Mr. Lewis, an expert in conjuring, a.nd with some
Bpecial knowledge of "slate-writing," can, when writillg an account of a
seance, attlwh BO little importance to circumstances which may-not improb-
ably-be the very nodus of the trick on the occasion in question, that he
thinks it unneceaaary to allude to them,-are we not just.ified in thinking it
far more probable that an ordinary observer will be liable toO make such
omissions 1
I may now repeat what I endeavoured to make clear in the Journal
for OctolX'r, 1886, tha.t J do not of course affinn that my particula.r
suppositions are correct, concerning either Eglinton's operations or the
• At that time I was only aware of the one dropping mentioned by
Mr. Lewis in the Journal for August.
Digitized by Google
520 Supplement to the December Journal.
mistakes made by the recorders owing to mal-observation, memory-
illusion, &c. Whether they are correct or not is immaterial for my
present purpose, which is to show "how far I think each report may fail
of being a full and accurate description of the sitting," and that this
deficiency prevents the suggestion of an 'occult' origin for the pheno-
mena reported. It may be regarded by some as an impossibility that the
witnesses could have made such mistakes as I have attributed to them;
but, as I have already pointed out, I cannot see that such an opinion
can be justified on apriori considerations; BOme experimental investiga-
tion is required for the purpose of estimating the trustworthiness of
human perception and memory under the special circumstances at issue;
and it may suffice here for me to say, for my own part, that the supposi-
tions which I have made involve no assumptions as to the untrust-
worthiness of the records which are not justified by facts that have
come within my own experience, and that the plausibility of many of
them is established, as I have shown, by omissions and discrepancies in
cases where we have more than one independent account of the same
seance.
There are various details in the reports, to which I have not
specially adverted, which are positively suggestive that the per-
formances described were conjuring. For the present, however, I shall
postpone any consideration of these. I may deal with them in a.future
paper, when I may also endeavour to compare the value of hUIll&U
testimony under ordinary circumstances, with the value of human
testimony under the e;;ceptional circumstances which constitute the
matrix of the majority of the records of the "physical phenomena"
of Spiritualism.
THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE JOURNAL.
The second volume of the Journal ends with this Supplement, and a
title-pago and index will be issued with the ~'ebruary number. Covers
will be ready about the middle of January, and may be purchased
at Is. each. Application to be made to the Assistant-Secretary,
14, Dean's Yard, S.W.
---------------------
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
This book is DOW published at the price of one guinea (2 vols.
octavo). One copy will be supplied to every Member of the Society
who has paid his subscription for the current year, for 5s. 3d. and the
cost of carriage or postage; and to every Associate who has paid his
subscription for the current year, for lOs. 6d. and the cost of carriage or
postage. The cost of postage per parcel post is Is.; the cost of
carriage within the Metropolitan district is 4d. or 6d. according to
distance. The book-post rate to the Continent or America is 2s. 2d.
All applications for copies at the above special terms must be made
to the Assistant-Secretary, 14, Dean's Yard, S.W. V ,
Digitized by Google
