{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1manuel_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Manuel P NDE 4796","mylang":"de"}
          	        Manuel P NDE 4796  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Manuel P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2520 Manuel P NDE 4796  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was riding a motorbike at night, around fifty to sixty mph on an unlighted highway which I did not know well, and I came off the road on a curve. At that moment I felt that everything was up with me, it was my end.

Then I felt a tremendous blow, which went right through my body from bottom to top. The next thing I remember is floating above the place of the accident, seeing people on the road and attendants putting me in the ambulance. Then I remember nothing, as I lost consciousness. I was taken to a regional hospital where I had emergency treatment, then since they could not do anything further for me there, I was taken by ambulance to a bigger hospital about a hundred and twenty-five miles away. I was sedated and unconscious for two days. During this time, I lost a lot of blood, spitting it out of my lungs; breathing was very difficult for me. For the eight days I was in the intensive care unit, I experienced a second separation from the body, more consciously this time.

Lying in bed with drips and catheters and monitors around me, I suddenly felt myself rising up and leaving my body; it was as if I was dissolved in the air but without ceasing to be myself. I saw myself leaving my body behind and I observed the room where I was from above, my body in the bed with all kinds of apparatus. There was no one else in the room. At that moment, I felt greatly relieved and happy at not having to suffer the pains of my body. Then I found myself in the corridor and could see a nurse walking down it. She went into my room, approached the bed and spoke to me. Then all I remember is hearing a rushing sound, after which I found myself back in my body. I opened my eyes and saw the nurse just as I saw her previously, speaking to me.

Finding myself back in the body, I felt disappointed at having to again suffer my precarious situation, with its pains. It was as if I felt obliged to return to the body when the nurse spoke to me, and I wondered what would have happened, or what I might have discovered or lived through if the nurse had not come in.

One thing I knew with certainty at that time: at the moment of death I will discover the answer.

I believe the experience must have lasted just a few minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  diciembre 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Spinal fracture, fractured ribs, hemopneumothorax bilaterally.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   At the moment I left the body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment I left the body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The feeling that although I could see the material (ceiling, walls) they were not obstacles.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I separated from my body there was no ceiling, no floor, no walls either to define a space as we understand up and down by gravity and space with material boundaries. I felt weightless and saw everything as if in a mist.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Ego and ambition are not important in the sense of self-expression and success, as generally understood in the world. We should be neither wolves not vultures.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I try to live a consistently Christian and spiritual life, although I belong to no particular confession. I give less importance to material things. I do not fear solitude, when alone I do not feel alone, as although we are alone we are not alone. I give importance to interior growth.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to live a consistently Christian and spiritual life, although I belong to no particular confession. I give less importance to material things. I do not fear solitude, when alone I do not feel alone, as although we are alone we are not alone. I give importance to interior growth.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to guide them so that they become interested in spiritual or transcendent things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The form of conscious existence outside the body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have not told it to many persons. One person had a similar experience and understood me. Others say that I should not take any notice of it; it is a product of the brain, making hallucinations. But some have been convinced that we are not just matter, that there is something more, whether we call it spirit or soul or astral body; it has given them a more positive vision of death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1manuel_p_nde.html