{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mandy_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Mandy J NDE 554  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tWhat a wonderful reception of relatives and remarkable description when she looked up in heaven to see the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mandy J NDE 554  		  		  		  		  		What a wonderful reception of relatives and remarkable description when she looked up in heaven to see the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.</span>">  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Mandy J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						554  Mandy J NDE  122  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description				      					On May 25, 1992 I was scheduled for 3:30pm gall bladder surgery. My hospital stay was to be 23 hours. My parents drove me to the hospital around noon and told me they had a few errands to run and they would be back before surgery. I checked in and was taken to a hospital room to wait. At around 1pm, the nurse came in and said they were going to take me to surgery early because they had a cancellation, it was Friday and the doctors wanted to leave early.


Neither my parents nor son knew I was going to go into surgery early, as I could not reach them. To prepare me, the medical team gave me something that would relax me. My family doctor, who was assisting the specialist, came in to see me and tell me he was there. The next thing that happened was unbelievable: I felt like I was being sucked out of my body fast, faster, then words can’t explain. There is not anything on this earth that can explain how fast this all happened.


First, there was an incredibly bright light (since seeing that light I wear glasses fulltime as I cannot see without them). When I was finally able to adjust my eyes to the light, I looked around and I was in a beautiful area that was huge (maybe five to eight football fields in size). The grass was all green, the area smelt of roses and other flowers and there were rows of people being greeted by other people (spirits) that had died and gone before us.


I looked to my right and to my left then I looked in front of me and there were all my relatives and friends that had died, standing in the order they had died. For example, my Grandfather Lupe was the first person I remember dying (he died in 1955 when I was 10 yrs. old), so he was the first person in line on the left side. These were only people that I loved and cared about deeply that had passed on before me.


On the right side was my grandmother (she passed on in 1991 at 92 years old). She was the first person I talked to and I asked her, “Grandma, why are you over there and not on this side with all the other people?” She was sitting in her green chair that she loved so much and she was doing something with her hands. Possibly she was crocheting - because she loved to crochet but had not been able to crotchet in her last few years because of her eyesight. She looked up at me and, in Spanish (my grandmother spoke very little English) told me I have a little bit more to do then I will go with the rest of them.


I turned back to my grandfather and told him how much I had missed him and how happy I was to see him. There were about 12 people in that line. I spoke with each and every one of them briefly, but had a longer discussion with my Uncle Donald. Donald is my Dad's brother who drowned June 30, 1989 (I may not be correct on the year). He was about 60 years old. I spoke with him and he told me to give his brother Joe a message. He told me what I was to tell his brother for him.


As I was getting ready to ask him another question, I looked up and saw my nephew floating above the others. He was not on the right or left - he was just floating around. I asked him, "Richard what are you doing up there?"  He answered, "It was not my time. I have to stay here until it is my time."  My nephew Richard committed suicide in September, 1989. I felt the hurt in my heart to know he was not able to be at peace.


At that time, I felt that I wanted to be in the warmth and comfort of these family members and I decided I was going to cross over when my grandfather put his hand up and said, “No, you can't come yet”. I asked, “Why not?” He did not say a word, only looked up and I looked up to see what he was seeing. I can't even describe what it was, but I guess in order to put it into words I would have to say in the sky, above this multitude of people-spirits, was The Father, The Son and The Holy Ghost. I have been a Catholic all my life and didn't really understand what the three-in-one meant, but I do now.


The most peaceful feeling came over me and I realized it was our Dear Lord. I told him that I wanted to stay. He said I could not. I asked, “Why not?” His reply was: “You need to go back and finish what I need you to do”. I started crying because I did not want to leave this beautiful peaceful place that I had found. He said, “Don't cry. You will see me again one more time before you see me for the final time”.


Next thing I knew, I was being sucked out of this wonderful place. As I was going back, I saw my doctor thumping me in the chest and asking the Lord to help him bring me back. I asked him about that much later and in return, he asked me how I knew that, because he has been saying that to himself, not out loud. I woke up in the Intensive Coronary Care Unit. I was to have my gallstone removed via laser however, when they inflated my stomach, they gave me too much air, and put too much pressure on my aorta - they lost me for one minute and twenty-five seconds. That minute and twenty-five seconds were more wonderful than my whole life has been. It was the most incredible experience I have ever had.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May  25, 1992

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death See narrative.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I can't explain that in words.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was fully conscious and was very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     When I pulled out of my body, it was like an enclosure.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See narrative.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A very, very, very bright light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt wonderful. I wanted to stay. I did not want to come back. It was so very, very peaceful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I truly, truly believe in the Lord Jesus.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   See narrative.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     The Lord sent me back with many special gifts. I see auras on people. I see the future on people: I know (by the color of their aura) whether they will be called home by the Lord. I have healing powers. I have been able to see the future while looking at candles. I have more but not enough time to explain them all, as I am trying to fill in this form at work.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: Seeing the Lord. Worst: coming back because I won't ever feel that peace as long as I am on the earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It took me a long time to finally accept all my gifts and to be able to share them with others. I have but one question, “If I have all these gifts and the Lord truly sent them to me, what am I supposed to do with them?”

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Again I ask: I have many, many special gifts. I would like to know how I can find out how I am supposed to be using them.

</p>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mandy_j_nde.html