{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1malena_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Malena S NDE 5418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Malena S NDE 5418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Malena S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3062 Malena S NDE 5418  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One night I woke up with an intense pain in my chest and great difficulty breathing.  The pain was so intense and so sharp that I surrendered and I 'went'.  Here, I lost consciousness as I passed into a state of relief where I was no longer in pain.  The last time I looked at the clock, it had been 4 am and when I revived, or at least when I regained consciousness, the clock in front of me said 7 am.  However, there were critical seconds during which my heart had stopped.  During the drama of the doctors were assisting me, I felt that I was already in another place totally outside of my body.  

I remember being floating over my body while I was going into a tunnel.  It was dark.  Further into the tunnel, I lost all perception of my body.  Now it was as if I was in an ocean of stillness, of calm, of silence, of rest.  I was happy, so happy, and I had an indescribable peace. I was in a state of extreme joy when suddenly I hear a very strong VOICE, powerful and omnipotent, that told me that I had to go back.  I did not want to go back, but this VOICE was so powerful that it was impossible not to obey the order, 'You must return to life. You still have three missions to complete.'  I began to feel that, from a stillness in which I found myself, I was now traveling quickly; I was 'returning' to life.  Then, I manage to ask, 'What missions do I have?', and it answered me question by question. Then I return to life, and the pain that was just as bad, and the physical drama.

When I felt them slapping me lightly on the face, I opened my eyes, and saw a lot of doctors and nurses surrounding my bed. There were lights, noise, voices, hustle and bustle, PAIN, anxiety, drama, etc.  I stayed eight days in intensive care, but they were eight wonderful days for my soul, because I had been with GOD.  For a few moments, I had been floating from my physical body and passing to that place that didn't have space, and there I felt the Presence of God, which filled me with an immense peace.  My physical state was very delicate; I had been on the border of heart surgery, but 'something miraculous happened', and the clot began to reabsorb itself; there was no longer a necessity for surgery.  After eight days, I left intensive care, and they gave me a break from oxygen.  During the following thirty days, I continued to have paranormal experiences in which I visited past lives, saw myself in other times, in other ages and in other countries, and with some members of my family, who were older or younger and who fulfilled other roles.  When I left this state and returned HERE, then I understood more about my life, about my relatives, and why I was having that experience.  It took a year to be able to relate this to my parents because I couldn't find words to describe it.  It took five years to be able to understand what the second mission was about, and it took ten years to be able to understand the third mission that I had to fulfill.  Now that sixteen years have passed since this experience, I feel that I have more understanding about what happened.   I am explaining the three missions that I've come to complete, that which makes me very happy and makes me feel ready to be able to narrate it and share it with everyone else.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '28 de Julio, 1996'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    embolia pulmonar  Other algunos segundos - no recuerdo bien cuantos -  My heart stopped for a couple of seconds or something like that.  They revived me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Thirty-eight days during which I felt I was talking to God directly, who also showed me so many events that helped me to understand my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Thirty-eight days during which I felt I was talking to God directly, who also showed me so many events that helped me to understand my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time and space did not exist.  I was simply in 'some' place that one cannot define.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The visual field was spherical or I was seeing EVERYTHING as if I was 'higher up', but, in reality, there was no space or time.  This is something difficult to explain

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was able to hear the voices with clarity, those that were speaking, even though they were speaking with very low voices.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was in the Tunnel the whole Time.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Si durante los 38 dias posteriores tuve experiencias variadas, algunas me llevaron a recorrer vidas pasadas otras me llevaron a aprender y recordar asceleradamente. Cabe mencionar que de esos 38 dias, 8 fueron en cuidados intensivos y 30 en convalecencia con oxigeno y descanso absoluto.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       PEACE. An immeasurable peace. I felt at ease and, finally, I no longer felt pain.  What a relief!  It was as if I was resting after no rest from feeling the great amount of pain.  But the Peace was indescribable.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     After that experience, I found myself to be more psychic. I was able to discern things up until they were felt, such as if the ground in another country was shaking.  When 9/11 happened, I was in Peru.  The night before the incident, I felt very ill, with vomiting and an immense depression.  At 9 a.m. I was informed via the television about the event.  I also had other experiences like that.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catolica

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     When this happened, I wasn't very devout religiously. After the experience, I returned very spiritual, with God everywhere and there isn't any place where He isn't!

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Creo en un Dios y en el Amor

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     When this happened, I wasn't very devout religiously. After the experience, I returned very spiritual, with God everywhere and there isn't any place where He isn't!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that I had to return to complete three missions.  I asked, 'What are they?'  He answered me with a supernatural voice that was impossible to contradict: 'You must return to your life. You still have three missions to complete.' and I asked, 'What are they?' Then I felt myself traveling at high speed, separating from this space that was so filled with peace. I managed to hear the three missions that I had to complete, which were so strong they made a great impact on me.  I then returned to life; to the drama of the illness, the pain, etc.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I changed one hundred percent.  I returned more spiritual and I dedicated myself to helping others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It took a year to relate it to my parents, and I did not relate it to my siblings.  I only recount it in my Reiki courses.  But now I feel that I have to tell it to the world, to write and share it in a book; it can be capable of helping somewhat in the investigation and also of helping others.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     After that experience, I found myself to be more psychic. I was able to discern things up until they were felt, such as if the ground in another country was shaking.  When 9/11 happened, I was in Peru.  The night before the incident, I felt very ill, with vomiting and an immense depression.  At 9 a.m. I was informed via the television about the event.  I also had other experiences like that.  Six months after this experience, Reiki came into my life, and I discovered the world of spiritual healing.  Later, with the years, I began to give courses and to teach others techniques that I learned while being 'there'.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The thing that affected me most was to have heard this supernatural VOICE. I cannot tell you if it was the voice of God, or if it was the voice of my spirit, or the voice of an angel.  I believe it was the VOICE of God and with such omnipotent power, it indicated to me that I must return to my life.  I did not want to leave this state of peace, but I had to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I really have shared it very little.  It took a year to recount it to my parents. Now, I sometimes tell it when I give Reiki workshops.  My mother understood little or nothing, and my father listened to me, but I don't think he understood me.  He surprised himself, but that was it.  After the experience, I was in the hospital, and I remained so impacted by the experience that I asked for a priest.  I conversed with the priest, and told him everything.  And the priest helped me to calm myself down.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real despite not understanding what had happened to me or whether it could be clear that I had been with God for 38 days, and that I had been in a place of peace where neither time nor space exists.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     With the years, I've gotten to know people that have gone through the same things that I have and our experiences coincide on many things.  I have been able to understand the three missions that I had been assigned.  The first was very clear; the second took me some five years to figure out, and the third some ten years.   I am reminded of what the priest was telling me; 'Have patience. Don't pretend to understand everything now; time will give you the understanding' because it has been that way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My mother's health is very delicate and it's been months since her critical state began. I've been talking with her a lot, explaining to her that she shouldn't be afraid.  Her health continues to be delicate but I know that when she enters into an unconscious state she will be with God and in Peace.  She makes me remember this experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I lost the fear of death.  I understood that death is a change in state and that the soul doesn't die; only the physical body dies.  I understood that we must be better human beings, must love everything and everyone, and that is why we are here. We must live ready to make the jump to the 'other side' when the day arrives, without fear and without attachments.  We must have a lighter body and be without emotional baggage.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would ask the question, 'Have you lost the fear of death?' I believe, when we go through something like this, the majority of us lose that fear.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1malena_s_nde.html