{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1malcolm_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Malcolm G NDE 2358","mylang":"de"}
          	        Malcolm G NDE 2358  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Malcolm G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						537  Malcolm G NDE  2358  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

The feelings of unearthly joy and overwhelming love."	"Yes"	"Developed double pneumonia."	"It was an ordinary day in the life of a young carefree man and suddenly, without any warning, I felt extremely ill and was close to collapsing.  I went to see my local doctor and after examining me, I was told it was a simple case of the 'flu.  I was prescribed antibiotics and returned home.  As the days passed, my condition grew worse and developed a very high fever.  I was unable to eat or drink anything, rapidly losing weight.  By the eighth day, I was lapsing in and out of consciousness, and my mother decided to take me back to the doctor.  I was too weak to stand; my uncle had to carry me.  The doctor said I had double pneumonia and had to be taken to the hospital immediately.  Because I was lapsing in and out of consciousness, I'm unable to recall much of what happened.  I vaguely remember being wheeled on a stretcher to the back of an ambulance, and then being wheeled into the hospital casualty ward.  

Then I briefly came around when a nurse was inserting an intravenous drip needle into my right arm.  Suddenly, I had a strange sense of complete weightlessness and began floating upward.  I wasn't at all alarmed by the experience.  I continued upward until I reached the ceiling about nine feet from the floor then stopped.  For the first time in several days, I actually have to see myself, not in a mirror but my body lying motionless on the hospital bed below me.  What a sad and pathetic sight it was: a grey deathly gaunt color with deeply sunken eye sockets and cheek bones, and yet in spite of that ghastly sight there was a beautiful feeling of a tranquil peace and wellbeing.  I was almost immediately aware of a high sense of alertness and it seemed that I could see and hear everything and everyone within the large ward.  

Then I gradually became aware that I wasn't alone, and I'm not talking about the other people in the ward.  There was an unseen 'someone' approaching me.  An indescribable overwhelming love began to completely envelope me and with it came a sense of joy that defies words.  I noticed there was a soft blue aura all round me (I later realized the blue aura was me).  Then a gentle yet all-powerful voice spoke softly to me: ‘Malcolm...Malcolm, it's not your time. Go back now.’  The best way I know how to describe the voice is - think of a million electric power stations all working together at the same time and this wouldn't even come close to the energy that his voice produced (I say 'his' because it was definitely a man’s voice).  

The next thing I recall was waking up two days later in a different bed, in a different ward, being attended to by a young nurse. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/1974  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Developed double pneumonia.  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt that I was able to zero in on any thing or anyone simply by drawing my attention to them regardless of the distance.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While hovering above my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no sense of time, as though it ceased to exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I believe I was able to listen to normal conversations across the other side of the ward.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An unseen being communicated with me and told me to go back.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, well-being, joy, love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More love, patience, and understanding.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings of unearthly joy and overwhelming love.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The ability to lay hands on the sick, often resulting in their immediate or speedy recovery.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I encountered this being of love who gave me another chance at life on earth.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 20 years later I shared it with my wife and then with some friends. Their reaction was of considerable interest in the matter. Whether it's been of any real influence to them is uncertain.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was very real but was unsure how to communicate the experience to others.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Prior to my NDE I was an atheist and didn't believe in any afterlife, but after the NDE I had to reconsider everything I believed. If this 'Being of love' wasn't God then who or what was he? Why was I out of my physical body but still very much alive?  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1malcolm_g_nde.html