{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1malina_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Malina E NDE 454","mylang":"de"}
          	        Malina E NDE 454  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Malina E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1285 Malina E NDE 454  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at a party and outside with friends. I was drinking beer and smoking pot, but not excessively, just socially. I wasn't drunk or high. My three friends and I went inside and walking down some stairs, I started seeing flashes of light. This was typical of the onset of a seizure so I was familiar with this trigger and knew what was about to happen. I told my friend how I was feeling and she thought that maybe I should take some more medication. We went upstairs to the kitchen. I took my pills with water and was standing in front of the sink. The following is what was told to me from friends at the party. I then went into a trance, my friend was asking me if I felt okay, but I didn't respond.

I was just staring into space. She said I then just fell to the floor and went into a seizure. People were around me and my friend said I was choking. I suppose my tongue blocked my air passage. She said her older brother practically had his whole hand down my throat, trying to pull my tongue out. I was turning blue, and when he finally was able to get my tongue clear from blocking my breathing, I came out of the seizure. He said he sat me up in a chair, and I looked at him and said, 'I'm dead, I know I'm dead.' He said it freaked him out and he kept assuring me that I wasn't dead. They called an ambulance and at the hospital, the doctors discovered I wasn't on the correct dosage of medication. The pharmacy filled the prescription wrong. The doctors determined this is what probably caused the seizure and why it was so severe. That was the physical part of my experience. What I was feeling while having this seizure, was like no other seizure I had before this or for anytime in the many years after. It was worst experience of my life.

First, before I was always unconscious and never felt anything while having a seizure. But during this seizure, I was fully aware of everything going on around me. I could hear my friends talking and I could hear the panic in their voices. This is why I believe I was experiencing an OBE. Although I couldn't see anything, I could also sense other beings around. I could feel the pain of my tongue being pulled on. I think I felt as if I was being tortured and I felt evil surrounded by the torture. After this sensation, my surroundings changed. Now I felt like I was in a void. I wasn't experiencing any pain anymore. I think this is when I started to die. I felt like I was slowly floating downward in a dark tunnel. I wasn't afraid anymore. I actually felt at peace. I don't recall that I was dying at the time, just felt good inside. It was a very pleasant feeling. But I never saw a light and I don't even recall when I came out of it. I know I don't remember telling my friend I was dead. I might have started to become aware of things when in the ambulance.

  					  Since then I've had many OBEs, psychic experiences, lucid dreams, past life experiences, visitations from people who are dead during OBE. I went twenty years without having seizures and about three years ago started having seizures again. I've had OBE's during times of taking medication and during the years I didn't take medication. I don't drink or smoke and never did habitually.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Approximately 1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Epileptic seizure  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Having a seizure and stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My appearance seemed shadowy. I could see only shadowy figures when I felt I was being tortured.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully consciousness, could hear people, but couldn't see them. My alertness was vivid, as I experienced pain and later peace.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just could hear people's voices, not strange people voices, but my friends who were actually there.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark tunnel, not completely black, but more like a void.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Again, many times, all when having OBE's. Went to familiar places and I knew the places. Other times, I was in beautiful, unearthly places. I've flown in the skies, high above the earth, both in the early morning before sunrise and late at night, when I can see city lights in the distance.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extremely scared at first, felt an evil presence while I felt like I was being tortured. During the tunnel feeling, I felt no more pain and felt peaceful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Hard to explain. But feel like I need to be doing something or sharing some knowledge. I think that's why I'm always searching for more knowledge. I always feel like I don't belong here on earth or I don't want to be here.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Throughout my life, I've had dreams that came true. Or felt a certain feeling about something about to happen and it would.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not afraid of death anymore.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings, both the bad and good feelings.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Since my early teens, I remember having psychic feelings. During times of having seizures, I feel this ability heightened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only share with certain people (other than my family members, who I share freely with). Most of the time I've shared this with friends, I've discovered they had similar experiences or believe in spiritualism. I think (consciously or subconsciously) I feel there's a connection with that person that enables me to share freely without fear of ridicule.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During times of having seizures.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have so much to say and ask, but too much to include right now.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1malina_e_nde.html