{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1malavika_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Malavika H NDE 7237","mylang":"de"}
          	        Malavika H NDE 7237  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Malavika H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3683 Malavika H NDE 7237  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember going to my best friend's house in the afternoon. We shopped at a very popular flea market in South Mumbai, and there was supposed to be a dog show at Radio Club in the evening. I remember getting our stamps done for entering. We entered, and there weren't many dogs at the time, since it was just in the afternoon. My friend suggested that we grab a bite at a McDonald's nearby and chill there before returning. I agreed. We were sitting at McDonald's talking about all things under the sun. My friend suggested we leave, since it was 5 pm, and the dog show was going to start. I got up and suddenly felt a jolt in my knee. I thought I sprained my knee. We walked down the steps, and we had just crossed the road when I felt a slight pain my knee. I didn't tell my friend, because I didn't want her to worry. The pain slowly kept getting worse. Then I couldn't hear anything. 

All the voices of the vendors and my friend next to me seemed distant, really distant. Then I couldn't stand. My head started to throb, and I just sat down on the footpath. My friend kept asking me what was wrong. I wanted to answer, but no words came out of my mouth. Suddenly the pain went away. I felt very light and at peace. I was in this dark place, where it was rather cold. 

I saw my grandmother who had passed when I was 15. I was really close to her as a child, since both my parents worked late and she raised me. I was so happy to see her. She was really into praying and always attended bhajans, etc. I hugged her and told her I missed her. She told me she missed me, too, and that she was really proud of where I was and who I had become. I was depressed over some issues and asked her if I could stay there with her. She told me, 'No.' She said that I had a lot to achieve. I needed to be there for my parents, my other grandmother and my cats. She kissed me on my forehead. 

The next thing I remember is my friend rubbing my back in order to revive me. She forcefully made me have a glass of water. After what seemed like a million years, I opened my eyes. There were people gathered around asking me if I was okay. I was embarrassed yet shaken. I sat there for 10 minutes, and then my friend helped me up. She lived 3 minutes away, and she told me to come to her house. She gave me some cold water and some chocolates. It took me about 30 minutes to be completely okay. Then we went to the dog show and Starbucks. I was pretty much fine then. After I went home, I told my mom about my fainting experience but not about the paranormal one. I came across this site and thought of sharing my experience here, being assured that people won't think I am some nut case.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Life threatening event, but not clinical death. Don't know.  I fainted due to a possible heat stroke or a sudden pain in my knee.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  When I initially started blacking out, I could hear people next to me, but their voices sounded like they were at a great distance from me.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When everything had started to black out, I could hear the people close to me, but it seemed as if they were at a distance. I could hear my friend panicking and yelling for people to come help us. Even though she was next to me, I felt as if she were 10 feet away from me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Everything seemed to slow down. I felt like I was there forever. However, I wasn't scared and didn't want to leave. I felt at peace and at home.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't see the Earth or people around me like most people have. When I met my grandmom, I could see everything clearly, even clearer than the vision I have on Earth. It was as if everything were high definition view; that's the best I could describe it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear my grandmother clearly; it was crystal clear. During the time I was with her, all the 'sounds' around me went silent. I couldn't hear my friend or the people around her, etc.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't really remember. I remember blanking out. Suddenly everything went dark, and I saw my grandmother.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my grandmom who had passed 7 years ago. I was very happy to see her. I forgot all about my worries and stress. All the negativity dissolved away when I was in her company. Also I felt like time had stopped.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not that I remember. There was a black room, but my grandmom had a light surrounding her, like she was glowing.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw a black room.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a lot of love from meeting my grandmother, and I didn't want to leave her. I am actually afraid of the dark, but in that dark room, I wasn't scared. I felt pure; it felt like a great weight was lifted off me such as my worries, stress, etc.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   I am a Hindu by birth. But I don't really pray religiously or anything everyday to god.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Like I said earlier, I pray now whenever I need inner peace. Before, I would cry myself to sleep or starve myself.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu   Not much has changed. I don't pray regularly. But I do sometimes when I feel like from the heart. And it gives me utmost peace and happiness.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was thinking about the dog show and taking pictures of the cute dogs. Death or a near death experience wasn't even anywhere in my head.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to not pray, but now I do go to the temple or the church sometimes. When I am there, I feel really peaceful, and my heart feels warm.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I believe that my grand mother is still looking out for me even after she passed. I feel blessed when I think about the same.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I was really depressed and I had asked my grand mom if I could stay there. She said no, that I was young and I had a lot to achieve in my life, that my parents needed me, she said she will always be there with me and will always look out for me.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     She told me everything will be okay and that I should have faith in myself. Then she told me to go back to earth.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I believe after this, that even after our loved ones pass away, they're always looking out for us, they'll always love us care for us and will always watch over us from above.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I used to crash diet. I was anorexic. After this experience, I went to the doctor, and I was told my bones had become brittle, because of starvation. I world skip dinners for days or eat 300 calories or less each day. My blood pressure was low. Now I am in recovery. I try to take better care of myself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was in a state of shock when it was taking place. Now I have accepted it, and I know it actually did happen.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember everything mostly, how it occured right from the start to the end.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Since then I have experienced dΘjα vu. I have even been able to predict stuff, particularly deaths that take place in my neighborhood. My grandfather's brother was very unwell in the hospital, and I just knew he was going to pass. The morning he passed, I had a dream that he had just passed. My dad got a call at 5 am saying he had passed at 4:47 in the morning.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting my grandmom.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about it and read a book called Laws of the Spirit World. It was actually about auto writing.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely real, but I don't know why I didn't encounter God like the others and I met my grandmom. I was really happy to meet her, but I'm just curious.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There was no light, but there was a dark room. It smelled like the Ponds powder my grandmother used to use when she was alive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1malavika_h_nde.html