{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1majenta_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Majenta S Probable NDE 6217","mylang":"de"}
          	        Majenta S Probable NDE 6217  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Majenta S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2977 Majenta S Probable NDE 6217  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was told I looked as if I was having a seizure and as if I was really about to die.

At first, everything started going black. Then I could feel I was spinning, but more of a spiral. There were tunnels, very small, but I was also going very fast. I had to choose the right one. Every time that I went the wrong way, I went faster and more tunnels appeared. I could hear voices calling my name as I went the wrong way and shouting at me. 

I could feel them as if they were hitting me; shouting that I was going the wrong way. It kept going as if it were never going to stop. Then, it suddenly did. Everything got quiet and peaceful. It was warm and bright.  I know my discussion with this being had everything to do with my decision. I just knew I was not done living yet. I had not experienced what I need to, or achieved what I need to. I was talking to someone, but I can't remember whom, where, or what about; but we knew everything and the meaning of life. 

Then it just faded out and I was in a room just looking at the ceiling, shoulder to shoulder with people I did not know, yet in there I knew them. We had all gone through the same experience. I remember saying to them, 'We did it. We're here. We get to walk this earth. He gave us this and no one will ever know what it's like for us. We made it.' Just talking to them like that with the biggest, most uncontrolled smile across my face. 

The feeling was unimaginable. It was the happiest I have ever been. No, it was so much more than that. I can't even explain the feeling I felt but we made it. We have to live and no one can take that from us now. We are going to go out there and live like we are now meant to. We found our peace, our meaning. There are so many words I could say, but none of them could further explain it. If you've had this experience, please speak up. I know I was not alone that day. There's more of us out there, same day, same time, same after-experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/3/12

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was told I looked as if I was having a seizure and as if I was really about to die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It's hard to describe. Everything in that life was just better, compared to this world, everything was unearthly.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was just in touch with my surroundings and life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My highest level was at the very end; when I was in the room with everyone.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I went unnaturally fast through the spiral, then it seemed like everything just stopped. Then it was just a peaceful moment.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything more clearly; it was so beautiful and bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything more clearly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through many, many tunnels; way too many. I kept going the wrong way. I had to find the right way out.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was many people, all alive, but I'm not sure who they were.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   After I was done talking to someone, it faded out and I saw only white.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The peaceful place where I was so much more than earth could ever provide.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear, insecurity, un-knowingness, beyond peace, more than happy, and excitement.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     No one knows all the answers but when you find yourself, you find everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I surpassed all obstacles in my world.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I know my discussion with this being had everything to do with my decision. I just knew I was not done living yet. I had not experienced what I needed to, or achieved what I needed to.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   i dont exactly have a certain faith. i believe everyone gets a second chance and if they choose to change their ways, they may enter haven.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   i dont exactly have a certain faith. i believe everyone gets a second chance and if they choose to change their ways, they may enter haven.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i cant.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered the person I was talking to. I cannot remember what he looked like or sounded like, but he was all-knowing and I listened.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   there were may people, but they all seemed to be regular people. except for the man i was talking to alone.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     there is a place outside of this world.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     the Being I spoke to was surely someone of a higher means. not power. he had no power. but instead only will. that was his power. The will to become better.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can't share it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     i cant tell you.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     there defiantly is, but you decide what it is.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     just live. its the only thing you have. and its such a waste to not do as much as you can or whatever your heart desires.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     people are the causes and solutions. god or a mystic being has nothing to do with our decisions.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I'm not in a relationship.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few hours later I explained it.  They didn't understand.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I take with me every minute of my life now. It's opened my heart.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It just changed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Not yet. It had just happened yesterday.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.  This was very helpful and I hope it will be for others.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1majenta_s_probable_nde.html