{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mahala_s_ste.html","mytitle":"Mahala S STE 9508","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mahala S STE 9508  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mahala S STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5116 Mahala S STE 9508  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    This time it started in 2014 when I saw  the number '11,11' everywhere and for weeks.

  On Saint John's day, I felt an urgent feeling that I should pray.  So, I did.  I yelled something like, 'Why am I here and why is this life so horrible?' 

  Then my soul suddenly popped out, begging to come home. A voice behind me said, "Make happy and you maybe will become it too." Immediately, I became very joyful and peaceful. 
  
  The next night, an angel with red hair woke me up to tell me that I had to meet the Lord.  I went out of my body, walked through the door and flew out from my balcony.  I saw a huge crystal stairway.  I was so amazed that I took five steps. Then I had to sit down on the steps for a while.  I looked around while thinking about my family.  I was so happy and relaxed that I knew they would be okay too.  There was nothing else but the stars and the shining crystal stairs that made rainbow colors because of the light. 

  Soon after I heard a voice say, "Mahala, come."  I stood up and continued to the top of the stairs.  I didn't walk up on all of the steps only a few and then suddenly, I reached the top.  There I saw two doors; I chose the one that was open and I could hear music coming from behind that door.  The other door was closed. 

  I was in space, when He came flying up to my right side. He smiled and said, 'Don't look back.'  We then went to Orion's Nebula (Messier 42) where He opened up a tunnel. On the left side with the four stars in the middle of the nebula cloud, he used some kind of word. Meanwhile, I walked around and checked out the cloud.  He spread his arms out when he commanded the tunnel to open.  Suddenly, I recognized and remembered I knew Him from earlier but had forgotten about it.

  As we walked through the tunnel I looked at the walls. It was like it was flickering electric currents but still I had a view to the cosmos around us. He said that I shouldn't look too much because it would drain the faith out of me.  I thought, 'What can harm me when you are in front of me?'  I walked slowly behind him and noticed that my feet didn't touch the ground, but was still walking.  

  When we got out of the tunnel, we flew in space. As we approached our destination, I saw many glittering colors and heard music. He told me "That is inspiration to people on earth." He told me that I would soon fall apart as we get closer but that he would fix me when we got to our destination.  

  Then I woke up on his lap as a baby in the New Jerusalem.  This was a star.  I understood that all stars are homes for our souls. He smiled and nursed me. I was immensely happy to be in my REAL Father's arms.  I was in Jesus Christ's arms.

  I was growing up VERY fast.  My whole family who had gone to the other side, were waiting on a little bridge in front of me and a creek running under it.  We hugged each other, some of them I did not know but I knew they were relatives.  All of them were young again. I asked my aunt who had died the exact same year. 'Do you know who this is?' She answered, 'Yes, He is always here!' 

  I had some alone time with them.  We went up in what looked like an old mill or water tower to talk. When outside again, they showed me the plate with the names of this towns members ,all my family members names (I now think all families have a star of their own in the after-life )

  After a while, Jesus came to get me. He and I went outside in what looked like a courtyard with pillars. We sat down on a little fountain and he gave me gifts; toys I had as a kid. I became so full of joy to see them again and to see the marks I had made on them while using them. The marks were still there.  This realization confirmed to me that it was the same toys I'd once owned. He laughed aloud.

  The town looked like a mix of ancient Greece and heaven.  I didn't see mansions, but it looked like everything my heart truly longed for.

  At one point I got the idea to pinch my arm and I felt it. I still had my body even though I knew that I was out of my body. I looked up in the air; there were no sun but still everything shined like a beautiful summer day so I asked him, 'Do all people come here?' He replied, 'No.'  He called for a small cloud that came right above me, it was some kind of 'cloud screen' where he showed me my whole life and some of my future. The cloud somehow surrounded me, and I was reliving scenes from my life, sometimes from another perspective; for example, I saw myself playing with my brother and sister when we were younger. When the scene was over the cloud left me and I was still sitting with Jesus. At one point I was shown that he was the one that installed my soul into my body the day I was born; I actually was in the hospital watching him kiss my forehead one second before I came into the world.

  When I was with the Lord my soul didn't care much for my body...I was still me but in my soul it felt much more important to please and obey Him. Jesus also showed me the several times when he saved me in life; among that from a car accident. He also showed me many of the times I prayed as kid, it felt like I was reliving all the scenes again  I could stay , but Jesus said, 'I don't want your mom to be sad.'

  He then went over to an old writing desk and wrote his name on something like flesh or papyrus with a feather pen and his own blood and said, 'Eat it.' 

  Before I did so I asked Him if I could see His hands (to confirm) He smiled and showed them to me; I could clearly see that He had huge nail mark scars in them. I ate it and when I did that I could hear a choir sing.  He then began to teach me with words from the Testament, but in some sort of code.  This was in words I had 'to heal with,' He said.  Names and words were flashing on a screen.  It was all the disciples names and some letters. I said, "It's so simple that a child could understand it!" (It was so obvious there) He then showed me a pillar that someone named Symeon Stylites used to sit on and something about the ANKH.

  In the end he showed me that he will come and get me the day that I die. He then gave me eternal life, while he did that, he drew something on the ground and said that I should try to endure the daily temptations and stop saying harsh words in anger. Then He hugged me and a big bright warm light surrounded us and we had to go back to my body.

  On the way back we were very close to Saturn and we walked on clouds

  I've been there two times now and filled with the holy spirit twice and it always happens right after an honest prayer

  Everything he said came true (in the first experience when I was 14~ I was sitting with Jesus looking out on a sunset and a beautiful wheat field, he then told me it was going to be a hard life but the outcome will be good for many and that I will be allowed to see more of heaven when 25 years has past and that promise he kept.

  (I recalled later on that he said my aunt had to come before I would be allowed to see the town  and she died shortly before my OBE)

  Behind me was a large tree with fruits I've never seen before and a ladder that angels and I used to transport to another place

  Later, He took me to a throne room where I saw two chairs; in one of them in front of me on my right hand I saw an old man looking a bit like God, you know from Michael Angelo's painting of The Creation of Sun and Moon. He was very muscular for an old man ,he looked at me firm but he never said anything. 

  On the wall behind me I saw a big, old wooden wheel with gemstones between the spokes. 

  The floor that seemed to could change from transparent to marble because at one point, I saw a jungle with all kinds of trees below me.  

  A loud voice saying "Bend for your master!" So, I did and now Jesus was sitting in the other chair but I still felt like HE WAS BOTH OF THEM* He told me that I had to save a girl from doing drugs. I met her later on in real life and  manage to convince her; she is now working for the Government. When being spoken to it wasn't done with sound and words, it was going on telepathically but I could still think and feel. I've also been filled with the Holy Spirit twice; the last time it lasted for five days - I was full of pure joy and love. I've never felt more joyful in my whole entire life and I was glowing for days 

  One evening I saw tall blue/grayish men in the sky flying up and down every time I heard an ambulance in my town. I also saw energies in purple/turquoise colors like rain coming towards us from the sky all the time (maybe neutrinos).

  Jesus' hair was VERY big and beautiful, like the mane on lion and His beard was just as beautiful and on His neck He had some sort of an ancient 'hammer cut style'. His robe was light blue and He wore old sandals

  When he showed me something I did in the past that wasn't so great he right after erased it and said, 'But it's okay now' and the whole place sang of joy.

  The following days I saw His face in everything; in shapes, in trees and shadows and in almost everything living on earth

  When I came back into my body I checked out the name Symeon Stylittes and I realized that he really did exist! I had no knowledge of the term 'pillar-saints' before. And, I still don't know why I saw it

  Throughout all of my experiences I didn't feel any judgment only understanding and directions to be a better person .

  A few days later, I saw the old man sitting next to Jesus in the throne room. The vision came flying right towards me when I blinked my eyes for a moment.

  I saw everything clearly.  It was not foggy or blurry.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1989/2014  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Just happened at night after prayer  Other Just a normal day but after seeing 11:11 for a longer period and that day i prayed  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Same but in awe that I was with Jesus  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All night  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I knew something magical was taking place  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    We spoke with no sound, almost telepathic  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Nebula Orion where Jesus opened a portal after he spoke a code to the 4 stars, the portal seemed electric and with view to the stars  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Late family members  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Saw a  bright light when Jesus hugged me  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I flew to a star with Jesus  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, and in awe  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Life review  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Believed in God but not in Jesus after I came to remember that I knew him from an earlier experience to paradise where him and I sat by a latter under a tree eating fruit I never seen before and prayed  together  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Many think it was like the testimony describes but much freer  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Jesus and had  a spoke person behind me that I never saw  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew THIS was Jesus Christ/God  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was with jesus , he was real  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Be good  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Do the best you can do for others  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It's all about being good  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Feel I lost faith after this experience because of confusion  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is a God but I myself almost can't believe it  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told everybody but soon understood people either didn't want to hear it or thinks I'm crazy  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Been with jesus before but had forgot about it  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real.     At the time, it felt VERY real  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Maybe evil trying to ruin my faith or could our brain make him up because we saw pictures that we had made our self of Jesus (as the old bible also says)  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It felt very real, but if you think too much about doubt may come and that ruins faith.  Don't seek answers to what you already were lucky to experience           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mahala_s_ste.html