{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1maime_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Maime S NDE 7179","mylang":"de"}
          	        Maime S NDE 7179  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Maime S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3640 Maime S NDE 7179  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My husband pushed me back and the chair fell backwards.  

I remember the tunnel, but it isn't like many describe it.  It was more like the tunnel is flowing over me.  Each place I looked, there are pieces of my life playing back.  I saw experiences I had not remembered.  The feeling was absolute peace and calm. I found myself loving that I could almost feel. I felt the emotions with each ‘movie’ experience of my life I was watching.  In these experiences I was with family that had passed and some that had not.  There were lots of experiences from when I was very young.  It was a feeling of safety and love.  Far away in the distance, I could faintly hear my name being called. 

When I turned to tell the person calling my name to please hush so I could carry on this amazing experience I was jolted back into my body.  With that, they managed to get a heartbeat.  My husband said he had been shouting my name yet it was so distant.  

I had to have this experience, as a month later, my young son drowned. By the absolute knowledge of total belief gained from my experience, he is now a gifted child who survived 28 minutes without breath and was declared clinically dead.  As a result we both experience spiritual contact and have psychic abilities.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Allergic reaction.  Other: Reaction to seafood in restaurant.  No heartbeat.  No breathing.  All body functions ceased.  I was served seafood in restaurant that didn’t taste right. I immediately told my husband that it tasted funny and pushed it aside on my plate. Within a few minutes I looked at my husband and passed out forward onto the table.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear my husband calling my name.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Emotional attachment to experiences from periods of my life is forgotten.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Experience was only a few minutes; however, it was heightened until the exact moment I made the decision to respond to my name.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time wasn't applicable.  A million things could happen in a second.  I became aware that time is only applicable in the bodies we exist in on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is no comparison.  Vision in our earth bodies is so limited to the vision you experience outside of the confinement of the body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There it is more like a feeling than a hearing.  However now I know that you can hear what people are saying.  In my case: not loudly.  But loud enough

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     More like it passed over me and I was floating or gliding.  But I wasn't going into the tunnel.  The tunnel was all encompassing and around me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I experienced events with relatives deceased at the time as well as with my mom and dad who were alive then but have since both deceased.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     If one could describe the tunnel for lack of a better word. Because it wasn't an earthly event one could describe in words.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Safe.  Loved.  Like this was how the story of my life was meant to be.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I was in the process of being given this information when I returned.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Before I thought there was a God but after I knew we were one with God making us our own God in our own lives and that we had the power to effect our own experiences.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now value our ability to control our own experiences.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   At the time i didn't know who was calling my name. Afterwards my husband said it was him.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It seemed as if every experience in my life suddenly had a reason.  That everything had to happen in order to teach that point.  Suddenly it all made sense.  That what we do on earth is actually an experience we have chosen.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably existsÂ

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     That the whole is one and we are one with everything we have experienced in parts.  Does that make sense?

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Feeling the emotion with each experience I was being shown and they were all experiences where I was being loved by other people.  Like my grandma.  And I never knew she loved me like that.  Suddenly I knew.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I am now able to sense and relay experiences of people that have passed over, to their living relatives.  I also have a heightened ability to perceive events not yet occurred in other people's lives.  I'm acutely aware of the vibrations of souls as they are about to be released from the confines of their bodies here.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I love more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because it's not something anyone would have seen, so you can't liken it to anything.  There really are no words to explain how it was happening.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Please check previous answers

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing.  I had to experience it in order to save my child's life.  That was the reason for my NDE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told people closest to me; I think, they all think I'm a little crazy.  Being psychic doesn't help and I think I freak them out a bit, but sometimes when they have lost loved ones the deceased know when I'm there and use me as a channel.  It almost put me in a mental hospital until I managed to take control of my space and time.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There are things I only remembered in my life during the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1maime_s_nde.html