{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mahmoud_nde.html","mytitle":"Mahmoud NDE 7189","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mahmoud NDE 7189  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mahmoud NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3673 Mahmoud NDE 7189  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was 11 pm, I was returning home from university and as a joke I sat on the hood of the car. My cousin was joking around and started to drive the car with me sitting on top. I was frightened and didn’t feel safe, so I jumped off the car.  I hit the ground, head first.  I went unconscious.

I went to a different place. It was quiet and pleasant. I felt very light. The feeling was so great I can’t describe it. I could taste sweetness inside me; everything was beautiful. I was in that moment for around 30 minutes. In that moment, I knew that whatever I wanted I could get. For a second I thought ‘who am I?’ I saw my whole life flash before me like a movie. I could go to any time in my life's review. It was amazing. I felt like my intelligence and thoughts were beyond normal. I did not feel like I didn’t understand, it was a great feeling and I wished I could stay here and not leave. It was having the thoughts that I was wondering, ‘What can I do?’ as I could do anything. 

But then everything went dark and I could feel the pain in my back and the heaviness in my body. I then came back to consciousness and was in the hospital with my friends around me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  پاییز 1385 خورشیدی

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   At 11 pm, I was coming back from university and was sitting on the hood of a car, when my cousin drove off in the car. I jumped off and became unconscious.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like my understanding and intelligence was unlimited.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Straight away after I woke up and became conscious everything was clear. I spent two nights in hospital and got stitches in the back of my head.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time, everything I wanted I just had to think it. Time has no meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as though my whole body and existence was like the eye: I could see everything around me. This was pleasant.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear anything; it was all just telepathic understanding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Out of body experience

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a place of peace, happiness and comfort.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just a great feeling that cannot be explained and a feeling of lightness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Life review

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt like there were no rules, boundaries or limitations.

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I try to be more religious.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim   اسلام کاملترین دین است

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     قبلن چنین داستانهایی در مورد تجارب نزدیک به مرگ خوانده بودم و در باور های دینی اسلامی هم به دفعات زیاد به این موضوعات اشاره شده که مرگ تازه شروع زندگی دیگریست فارغ از همهی محدودیتها و سختیهای دنیا

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     From my childhood I had my own world. In a group environment, I would get a lot of attention and I would get very unhappy about this. So I tried to act more normal and distanced myself from people. I could meet people and had a feeling that something was going to happen to them: then a while later the person would die. This scared me; I wished not to experience this.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     زندگی دنیوی فقط برای ساختن و البته خوب ساختن آخرتی خوب است

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I did not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     چون حس میکردم هیچ محدودیتی که قبلن در دنیات داشتم را ندارم

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     People who don’t know me ask me where I am from as my accent has changed.  I have become more intelligent, and motivated to study. I am studying mechanics at a hard university. But then I had another accident on my motorcycle and my arm broke, I could not write so had to stop studying. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I try to be nice to everyone and invite everyone to be good.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot explain the feeling and experience I had.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I will have dreams that come true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mostly the good feeling and sweetness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn’t say anything for a few years but then told a few of my close friends who were surprised.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In a magazine called ‘Days of our Lives’, there was a column written about NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I had read about this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     From my religion Islam, they spoke much about death. This experience has left me with a positive feeling about dying. Like the curtains have been removed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Once when I was really sick, I felt my spirit leave my body. I could feel me lifting and feeling light. I could move my spirit but not my body. I felt like I was moving inside my body but my legs and arms weren’t moving.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt like the limitations in this world don’t exist there. I had read about stories on NDE and my religious beliefs had repeated that after death there is life. Life after death is free of pain, limitations.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mahmoud_nde.html