{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9932","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n36_jan_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N36 January 1887","mylang":"de"}
NO. XXX\"l.-VOL. In. - ,
:,.: -.
JOURN.A£:.:~.::.
..- .
OF THE ••-.; -.
,--
J'ANU~Y, 1887.
SOCIETY FOR psycmCAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
. .- ..
.: ..
.-
.: JlAIlE
Statement of the Literary Committee of the Society for Psychical Resea.rch . • .... ' -./- 1
The Possibilities of Mal·Observatlon, &c., from & Practical Point of View, by S. J'. Davey; ::.-s.
Automatic Writing .~,•'it:
Correspondence •• ...n .
===========================!d
..... :.
STATEMENT OF THE LITERARY COMMITTEE OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
A certain feeling of surprise and dissatisfaction has been publicly
expressed that the Literary Committee, as a body, have not examined or
reported on the existing evidence for the so-ca.Iled "physical phenomena"
of Spiritualism; and it is thought that this feeling may be dispelled or
diminished by a brief account of the manner in which the work of our
Committee has been conducted, and an explaJlA.tion of our position in
this matter.
The Literary Committee had to begin somewhere: some choice had
to be made among the various subjects included in the original pro-
gramme, in which the aims of the newly-formed Society were defined
and classified. And it was almost at once realised that there
were two decisive reasons for selecting, as the first subject for
consideration, the phenomena which occupy the most conspicuous place
in the recently-published work, P1J,antasms of the Living, and which
are there called cases of "spontaneous telepathy." In the first place,
these phenomena seemed to ~onnect themselves in a natural way with
the results of experimental thought-transference, which, for many
months both before and after the formation of the Society, occupied so
prominent a place in our minds, and which of necessity claimed the
most conspicuous place in the Proceedings, as being the first-fruits of
the work of the Society's own experimental Committees. And, in the
second place, records of spontaneous telepathy h'eld by far the
most prominent place in the mass of evidence which soon began to
crowd upon us, in response to our published appeals. On these
records, then, we set to work; and during the ensuing YE'ar a large
number of meetings were held, either by the whole Committee or by
three or four members of it, in the course of which we gradually
formed our view as to the best way of managing the evidential work,
B
Digitized by Google
," -
......
. :.. ,
2 Journal of Sae'ieto/ for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
and as to the kind ·Sti::~xamination and verification that the alleged
facts required. ~:',i. time the lesson was to a great extent learnt.
Repeated dii!!cus~it:pad led all of us to concur as to the points demand-
ing special at.t-.enHan, just as lawyers would concur 011 the critical
points in aJl.:abAtract of title. After this agreement was attained,
the forma}~~tings were discontinued. We were all now in accord as
to the metErod of inquiry. Henceforth the cases which reached
one or-.I!<nother member of the Committee were dealt with by that
m~q:lb~r,.who worked up the evidence to the best of his power; and
IWttlt'·.consultation as took place was of an informal kind. The
G~~'~littee met again, when it was necessary to make a preliminary
'-: )6lection of the cases to be published in Phantasms of the Living;
• :::" '-but as to a very large number of cases, received since that time, the
" ,', " decision has been made by two or three members-the evidential
requirements having been by that time so completely agreed on that,
within certain limits, there was no possibility of an important
difference of view.
Meanwhile a pla.n had been introduced by which other members
of the Society might, if they desired, take part in the criticism of the
evidence. From a very early stage the cases received which seemed to
have a prima facie claim to consideration, in all branches of the
research, had been printed in slips, and were open to inspection at the
Society's rooms. But the study of them in this form was inconvenient;
and the establishment of the monthly Journal afforded a far easier
means of keeping members acquainted with the information that
reached us. A number of cases were printed in the Journal, sometimes
with comments; but very little criticism was received from outside; and
we inferred from this that our methods of inquiry were regarded as
on the whole sensible and satisfactory.
We have explained tha.t formal debates of the full Committee on
the telepathic evidence were discontinued because they had ceased to be
necessary, and had come to involve a considerable waste of time and
energy. And now, in view of the length of time that the full
treatment of the telepathic evidence would require, it was thought
desirable that other departments of the work should be provisionally
dealt with by individual members of the Committee. Mr. :Myers
undertook the examination of the phenomena of "automatic writing,"
and has published some papers on that subject; it was at one time
thought that Mr. Massey would take in hand what we called the
P series-the evidence for premonitions of various sorts; Mr. Gurney
occupied himself with mesmerism; Mrs. Sidgwick analysed and
discussed the G series-the evidence for "phantasms of the dead."
This would seem to have been the time to raise an objection, if any
Jan.,1887.] Journal of Society for Psych-ical Research. 3
objection was felt, to the treatment of a large department of evidence
by a single member of the Committee; but not a word was uttered,
either in the Committee or (so far as we are aware) out of it, in
deprecation of the course adopted.*
At least one more large class of alleged facts remains to be
considered--the so-called " physical phenomena" of Spiritualism. The
evidence in this class is distinguished by some radical differences from
that in the other classes that have been mentioned. To begin with,
the alleged phenomena. have been for the most part observed in the
presence of professional "mediums "-persons, that is, who have a
strong pecuniary interest in their production; and the character of the
records, as descriptions of genuine phenomena, depends, not only, as in
other cases, on the bona fide. of witnesses to whom it is all but
impossible to attribute a common desire to deceive; but on the skill
and certainty with which the witnesses could guard against being them-.
selves deceived by sham phenomena, in the company of a person or
persons whose interest it was that the phenomena. should seem to occur.
We can no longer say-as in. the case of phantasms of the living, where
the point of each experience is its coincidence with an external event--
that "all the accuracy of observation required of the witness has to do
with what he .eemed to kimBeifto see, or to hear, or to fee!." On the
contrary, the whole value of his evidence now depends on the validity of
his inferences--on the correctness of his interpretation of his subjective
impressions. And in estimating this it is much more important
than in estimating the best evidence for phantasms of the living
and of the dead to distinguish between his impressions at
the time and his impressions afterwards, and the danger involved
in producing by questions a fictitious definiteness of recollec-
tion is much greater. Again, the evidence differs greatly in form
from most of that which had previously been studied. It does not
consist, as most of that did, of records sent in MS. to the Committee,
and previously known only to a very limited circle. The bulk of it has
been already published in books and journals; and the accounts of the
best known and most accredited series of experiments are easily
accessible, and, however much they may demand study and criticism,
do not need to be printed and presented anew.
* It may be worth while to remind our readers that neither the Literary
Committee nor its individual members represent the Society, or have any clabn
to speak in its name. They owe to tlie Society the duty of collecting and
sifting information, and of presentin~, in the various departments of the
research, such evidence as is not accesSible, or is not easily accessible, by other
means. But they have no power or mission to supply a miscellaneous body of
700 persons with a collective opinion or a collective yoice; and suchviewsas they
may eX{lres8 are no more pronouncements of the Society than the utterances of
any inlfividual member, or of any other group of members. .
B 2
Digitized by Google
" JOU'Mial of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
Putting these special series aside, the rest of the evidence,
so far as we have to consider it, consists in a miscellaneous mass
of records, made by witnesses of integrity, and probably of average
ability, but for the most part without any special training in the kind
of observation required, or special aptitude for the arrangement of tests.
Now clearly the very first step, in examining evidence of this character,
is to ascertain what amount of competence the witnesses possess in
relation to the particular subject in hand-to ascertain how far
such witnesses are competent to observe and record with correctness
a series, frequently 0. long series, of the sort of events that constitute
the real history of seances. It was useless to bestow any very large •
amount of labour on the multituclinous records of the past, until some
well-grounded opinion had been arrived at on this preliminary question.
Still, three substantial papers, published in Part X. of the Proceedings,
embodied a good deal of personal experience and discussion.
Meantime material had been accumulating which offered a good
opportunity for attempting the preliminary work; and there were
special grounds for not delaying to bring this material under the notice
of the Society. For some time Mr. Eglinton's slate-writing phenomena
had boon attracting attention, and accounts of them were being sent to
the editor of the Jowrnal-at that time Professor Sidgwick; and com-
plaints were made that he showed partiality in not printing this evidence
for what it was worth, and thus letting the members of the Society know
what was going on. At the same time, Mr. Hodgson's investigation into
the" Theosophical" phenomena of Madame Blavatsky, and Archdeacon
Colley's letter to the Medium, of 1878, unknown to Professor Sidgwick
before the winter of 1885-6, cominced him that this medium had prac-
tised deliberate imposture in two cases, separated by an interval of some
years; and he thought that it was due to those members of the Society
who were or might be interested in Eglinton's performances tha.. the
grounds for this conviction should be communicated to them. For these
two reasons-the desire of certain members of the Society that evidence
about the recent seances should be printed, and his own desire to put the
Society in possession of the facts regarding the medium's impostures-
Professor Sidgwick determined that an article should be written, incor-
porating evidence of both kinds, with some remarks on it. It was in
accordance with precedent that the cases should be thus printed, as a
means of circulating them among the members of the Literary Commit-
tee; who therefore had no responsibility whatever in the matter. :Most
of the cases had been originally communicated to Professor Sidgwick, as
editor of the Jowrnal,' but as it seemed desirable to print the whole of
the evidence on the subject that had been sent to the Society, a few
records which were in Mr. Gurney's hand-s were included. In order
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 5
more completely to exclude the ideo. that the article had any official
character, Professor Sidgwick resigned the editorship, and entrusted the
writing of the article to Mrs. Sidgwick, who of course is alone
responsible for the views which she has expressed. It was originally
intended to incorporate with her paper some criticisms of the records
by Mr. Angelo Lewis; but, partly because of the delay this would have
involved, partly because of the unusual bulk to which the numerous
records received had swelled the number (Joiumal for June, 1886), this
plan was abandoned, and Mr. Lewis's criticisms were printed in a
separate article in August.
Since that time, the examination of the evidence in detail has been
carried on by Mr. R. Hodgson; and this work is still being prosecuted.
Its scope is clearly not confined to the particular cases analysed.
It should be regarded as a first attempt to estimate in detail the value
of testimony in cases where the possibility of an exceptionally disturbing
influence has to be allowed for-to wit, the influence of a person skilled
in particular forms of deception, whose chief object is to prevent the
witnesses from perceiving many of the actual occurrences, and to
persuade them, by ingenious illusions, to an erroneous belief concerning
others. In relation to this branch of the subject, Mr. S. J. Davey has
rendered important service, as may be seen from his communication
to the current number of the JO'IJIN'I,Q,l, which will, we hope, appear with
additional details in the Proceedings. Here it must suffice to state
that, in the view of the Committee, the ordinary testimony on the
subject, though contt.ibuted by persons of honesty and intelligence,
has been shown to present such errors and omissions as preclude any
assurance that the possibility of conjuring on the "medium's" part
was excluded. Itdoes not, therefore, seem necessary thatwe--or those
of us who are occupied with the subject-should examine with equal
minuteness the numerous accounts of this stamp which are to be found
in Spiritualistic literature. Certain picked records should undoubtedly
receive careful criticism. But average observation, ten or twenty years
ago, was much what it is now; and the average evidence of that time
is not represented, even by those who believe the phenomena to have
been genuine, as superior in cogency to the samples recently examined.
Turning now from the past to the future :--as regards the "physical
phenomena" of Spiritualism, we understand that a group of competent
persons are forming themselves into a Committee,* for the purpose of
examining any personal experiences of the sort that may be referred to
them, and of giving any advice and assistance that they can in following
* The President, the Hon. Secretary, and Professor Barrett ha.ve already
expressed their willingness to act on this Committee; and Mr.Crookes. Mr.
Angelo J. Lewis, and others. have been invited by the President to join it.
Digitized by Google
6 Journal of Society for Psy~hical Research. LJ&u., ~!!87.
up useful lines of experiment-joining themselves in experimental
investigation if opportunity offers. They would, of course, ha.ve the
power of presenting reports to the Society, on their own responsibility,
whenever the evidence in their hands seemed to be of sufficient value.
Much of this work lies quite outside the normal functions of the
Literary Committee; and, as we think that there is a certain advantage
in leaving the whole treatment of the subject to one body of persons,
we shall probably hand over to this new Committee any evidence
relating to "physical phenomena" that may be sent to us.
But though the Literary Committee, as such, would thus turn its
attention to other departments, its members by no means wish to
imply that their interest in the alleged facts of Spiritualism has ceased.
More than one of us believes that glimpses of these facts-in an
atmosphere of unquestioned probity-have been vouchsafed to him;
and these glimpses have powerfully contributed to keep alive our
interest in the inquiry. Our minds remain open; and as experience
and discussion make the conditions of evidence clearer, we may fairly
hope that any genuine phenomena which may occur will have a far
better chance than previously of being recorded in a satisfactory
manner.
For be it once more observed that neither in this nor in any other
branch of our inquiry can we suppose ourselves to have reached any
permanent goal, to have come to any conclusion unmodifiable by further
evidence. We do not, indeed, intend to follow into further detail the
adventures of that remarkable Russian lady, to whose doings so much
type has been already devoted. But there is probably no other topic
on which we have already written to which we do not propose at some
time to recur again. In those directions which, as already said, we
have thus far found most fruitful in results-to wit, the various forms
of telepathy-we strongly feel, and have strongly asserted, that we
have only made a beginning in what we hope will prove a most
important field of investigation. We would beg our readers to under-
stand that we areas anxious as ever for accounts of fresh cases of
apparitions at the time of death, of veridical impressions of all sorts,
and above all of fresh experiments in thought-transference, whether
with normal or hypnotised subjects. The same remark applies to
"phantasms of the dead," which have been dealt with provisionally;
and to premonitions, which have not been dealt with at all. And
especia.lly does this demand for fresh evidence-for " further and better
particulars"-a.pply to that varied range of alleged phenomena which
are popularly massed together as Spiritualistic. It must be remembered,
moreover, that the very phenomena to which Spiritualists justly point.
as offering the best attainable evidence for the continued existence of
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 7
departed souls do in fact belong to a larger class of phenomena which
admittedly recur, which are undoubtedly capable of reproduction.
Automatic writing, that is to say, and cognate automatic phenomena.
occur admittedly; or, if this be as yet too much to affirm, yet we at
least admit them, we hold that they present problems of high interest to
the psychologist. Whether or not they proye the special Spiritualistic
belief is another question; but there are probably many Spiritualists
who have it in their power to summon into existence fresh evidence
bearing on this question. All persons, indeed, who are interested in
experimental psychology would do well, we must'think, to attempt these
automatic phenomena. But to Spiritualists the point is a vital one.
No mere physical phenomena-whatever else they might prove--could
carry a persuasion of the continued existence of departed friends greater
tha.n that which might be afforded by automatic messages which should
contain an internal evidence of authenticity, resting not on subjective
considerations only, but on demonstrable coincidences of fact. We can
assure Spiritualists that the conclusion which they would have us draw
from such phenomena is one which we have no reluctance whatever to
accept, if we could find it supported by adequate evidence. Indeed, if
we regarded the prospect of arriving .at this conclusion as altogether
excluded, our interest in the subject would be decidedly less than it is.
We admit, then, that the evidence already accumulated for
Spiritualistic phenomena is more sincere, more varied, more extensive
than the ordinary world is ready to suppose. But we maintain that
most of it is largely infused with a subjective element,-is such as may
perhaps be adapted to found a sect, but certainly not to establish a
science. This indeed has been the result-inevitable perhaps at the
outsel;-{)f the strong emotional interest which these inquiries
involve. Doctrines which touch on interests at once so vast and so
personal have never yet in the world's history been treated in a purely
scientific spirit. From the dawn of speculation onwards they have
moulded themselves not into Science, but into Religion; and it is not
into a Science, but into a Religion that the majority of Spiritualists
mould them now. We have no wish to attack, or even to defend our-
selves against, believers of this type. But we must repeat that the very
,.avon d'2tre of our Society is to take a course exactly opposite. We exist
in order to carry, if we can, the methods of recognised Science into &
region where no recognised Science as yet has forced its way. And we
appeal with equal sincerity to each of the groups which stand aloof
from us on either side, to help us in the task which we have under-
taken. To those who deem us credulous we say: "Criticise our
methods, and we will do our best to improve them. Attack our evidence,
a.nd we will strengthen or abandon it." And to those who think us Over-
Digitized by Google
8 Journal of,Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
sceptical we say similarly, "Offer us more and better evidence, and
you will find that there is nothing to which we oppose a mere apriori
denial,-no case which we will not set forth with candour, and criticise
with care." We can well understand that persons to whom Spiritualism
has long been afaith will not care to respond to our appeal. But if the
phenomena exist and recur, there will be fresh groups of persons who
encounter them and are interested in them; and we ma.y fairly hope
that such new inquirers may find some guidance in our critical dis-
cussions of evidence-may feel some disposition to assist the researches
of persons who have at least shown that they make a serious attempt
t3 analyse the degrees of testimony. Assuredly these strange alleged
phenomena must undergo a long, a searching scrutiny before they can
enter permanently into the reasoned creed of men. ~f such scrutiny
has as yet been but rarely directed upon them, it has not been because
they were deemed to be above the level of doubt, but below it. From
no point of view need stringent examination be dreaded or deprecated.
If the alleged truths be real, then assuredly no time will have been
wasted which has helped to prepare for them, to explain, to connect, to
establish. And if the beliefs should be found to be in large part illusory,
yet it will not be lost labour to discuss the psychological causes which
have produced, and still produce and support them.
Signed on behalf of the Literary Committee,
EDMUND GURNBY.' } H S .
FREDBRIC W. H. MYERS. on. ecretanes.
THE POSSIBILITIES OF MAL-OBSERVATION, &0., FROM
A PRACTICAL POINT OF VIEW.
By S. J. DAVEY.
For some time past I have practised slate-writing, and have given
up much leisure time to the subject with a view to discovering how far
ordinary witnesses can be deceived by conjuring performances. I have
received reports of my experiments from various persons, some of which
I subjoin. Lest there should be any misunderstanding I must explain
what induced me to take up the subject, and the general conclusions to
which I have been led.
Readers of the Journal are aware that I sent reports of sittings
with Eglinton to our Society in 1884, and that I had previously sent
reports of the same sittings to the periodica.l Light. I do not now
attribute any value to these reports as proving the reality of so-called
"psychography," ·for reasons which will appear in the sequel.
My chief interest in Spiritualism generally was awakened by an
Digitized by Google
Ja.n., 1881.] JO'l.wnal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 9
experience of my own, which was as follows :-In 1883, owing to a
lIerious lung complaint, I spent several months at a Continental health
resort. During this visit, one of my companions died under circum-
stances of an unusually distressing character; and another friend and
myself had been in frequent attendance upon him during his last ill-
ness. His body was subsequently dissected, in the presence of my
other companion, Mr. C. Three weeks after this I was startled one
night by seeing what appeared to be the face and form of my deceased
friend under circumstances that greatly surprised me, and the next day,
whilst visiting Mr. C., who lodged in the same hotel as myself, he
informed me that he had that night experienced a remarkably vivid
dream in which he had seen our deceased friend. I then for the first
time related to Mr. C. what had happened to myself.*
On my return to England I began to devote some attention to the
study of alleged psychical phenomena, and I perused several works
relating to the subject, including Zollner's Transcendental Physics,
Psychic Force, by Professor Crookes, Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,
by Alfred Russel Wallace, The Debata1Jle La,nd, by Robert Dale Owen,
Psychograpl~y, The Report ofthe Dialectical Society, &c., and I formed
a circle of friends for the investigation of the alleged phenomena.
During my first experiments I found myself affected a good deal by
involuntary movements which I could not then account for, though I
now have little doubt they were caused simply by nervous excite-
ment; however, nothing of any significance happened, and it was at
this stage of my investigation that I made the acquaintance of
Eglinton, of whose s<Hlalled "psychography" I had heard. At the
conclusion of my first seance with Eglinton, which took place in June,
1884, I could not account for the phenomena. except on the
Spiritualistic hypothesis, and I was led to believe, from the "communi-
cations" which I then received, that I possessed psychic powers. My
second seance with Eglinton, on October 8th, 1884, was a failure, but
my third, on October 9th, 1884, was a success. I was somewhat excited
at these results, and even contemplated making a collection of cases
to convince the unbelieving world. On October 9th, 1884, the sup-
posed invisibles informed me that I had " developed my own powers
to an appreciable extent, owing to their former ad,ice." Now, between
my first and third seances I cl'rtainly had experienced privately one or
two incidents that I then regarded as genuine psychical phenomena,
and I will briefly relate one of these experiences.
.. I ha.ve since had some correspondence with Mr. C., who does not look
upon the incident as anything more than a dream coincidence. At the time, I
attached particular significance to my own eXllerience, as my friend, when alive,
had discuSsed the question of Spiritualism with me.
Digitized by Google
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
One afternoon in September, 1884, I took two slates and determined
to experiment alone. I held them together with a smail pencil grain
between. I was in my library; the slates were taken out of a.
private box by myself; I glanced at them and placed them in the
position above described. In the course of some few minutes I lifted
up the slates and examined them, and found the word" Beware" written
in la.rge characters across the under side of the upper slate. My
astonishment at this cannot well be described, I\S I felt convinced I ha.d
previously thoroughly examined the sla.tes, and I took the first train to
London, and showed them to my friend Mr. X. (see Journal for
October, pp. 435, 436). He agreed with me in sa.ying it was almost
incredible. I then attributed the above, and one. or two kindred
phenomena, to the action of an abnormal power proceeding from myself.
Eglinton could have conjectured this belief from a private letter which
I sent in answer to a correspondent who wrote to Light, asking for
advice as to methods of investigation, and which, by a mistake on the
part of the editor, was inserted in Light, September 20th, 1884, with my
name and address appended.* Or it is possible I may have told Eglinton
myself.
It has been proved to me that these experiences were neither more
nor less than simple hoaxes, perpetrated by some of my friends.
Another incident of a somewhat ludicrous character may be mentioned
here. I had bought a trick slate, which had been sold to me as an
explanation of the process used by mediums. I found, however, that
this was scarcely true, as the trick was a very palpa.ble one. . I had put
this slate away in my drawer with the other slates containing the
writing of Eglinton's supposed spirits. One morning, on going to this
drawer, which I usually kept locked, I found the following words, or
something to the same effect, written across the false surface of the
trick slate: "We object to your learning trickery." I then compared
this writing with some on Eglinton's slates, and found it apparently
identical. I was naturally somewhat amazed, and I did not then for a.
moment suspect that my friends were hoaxing me, and that the above
sentence had been written in careful imitation of the writing on
Eglinton's slates. Also, during seances held privately, I con-
* In my advice to the correspondent, the following passage occurs :-" If
he can manage it, I should advise him to try and get; a sitting with 0. good
medium. Eglinton, of 12, Old Quebec-street, London, is very powerful, and
although he will exptlCt some recoml'ense for his trouble, it will save' Mopsus •
much future time. He will find Eglinton's spirit-gwdes will probably inform
him the cause of all the failures•
.. I may add that; a short time ago I was !J.uite a lceptic as !'8Fds Spiritual-
ism, and by simply following out 'M.A.'s' IDstructions in Light, in my own
family circle, I haTe gained conviction of the truth, and am now slowly develop-
ing into a medium myself."
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1881.] Journal of Soc'iety for Psychical Resea''f'ch. 11
tinued to be frequently seized by spl}smodic movements when I
believed "uncanny" manifestations were about to take place.
As a conjurer, I have been since amused sometimes at similar
convulsions in others during my conjuring performances, when
the sitters have supposed that the writing was being produced by
supernatural means; my own shudderings during these performances
being, of course, part of the trick.
I had several other seances with Eglinton after October 9th, 1884,
all of which proved blanks, except one held on January 15th, 1885. One
of my friends who accompanied me to this sitting assured me he had
actually seen Eglinton imitating the sound of writing a.t the time when
I thought a long communication was being written. I endeavoured to
be more watchful at the two sittings which I had after this, the final
seance being on June 25th, 1885; but at neither of these did any
results occur, although I did not inform Eglinton of the information I
had received. However, partly in consequence of my friend's convic-
tion that Eglinton's performances were only tricks, I began, after
getting no further results, to apply myself anew to see what could be
produced by conjuring. I then met with an individual who professed
to sell me" secrets," which he gave me to understand he ha.d procured
from an American medium. I also bought one by which words, &c.,
could be made to appear on the flesh after it was rubbed over with
burnt paper. I soon made use of the knowledge thus acquired by per-
forming before friends and acquaintances, and I found that even at
that early stage of my practice many of them could be deceived as to
my real modus operandi. Eglinton has attempted to give particular
validity to the accounts of my successful seances with him in 1884,
claiming my testimony as that of one who had "specially studied and
practised the art of simulating the slate-writing phenomena under
conjurers' conditions" (Light, July 31st, 1886). I have already pointed
out elsewhere that I was not an expert in 1884, when I wrote the
reports in question, which Eglinton describes as "among the most
favourable and decisive which have appeared." The extent of my know-
ledge on this subject at that time will be found described by myself in
Light, August 21st, 1886, as follows:-
I went to Mr. _Eglinton on June 30th, 1884, and I do not remember
ever having previously performed a single conjuring trick as applied to slate-
writing, and also the question of conjuring in any other form had in no way
interested me. Previously to 11I.y second seance, October 9th, 1884, I made
some three or four attempts with a thimble, pencil, and a slate held under
the table, and witha trick slate made of card-boardf with a movable flap and
blotting-paper.
I noticed that many persons made statements concerning my per-
Digitized by Google
U Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
formances, as to the conditions of the production of the writing,
which were just as emphatic as I made in my own reports about
Eglinton, and I also noticed that nearly all these statements were
entirely wrong. Even when I sometimes revealed the fact that I was
merely a conjurer, the reply which I frequently got was something of
this kind: "Yes, you may say it is cOlljuring, but it could not have been
done by that means when I did so-and-so" (describing a supposed test)
"and yet we got the writing all the same." As I went on I was
gradually forced to the comiction that my own reports about Eglinton
were just as unreliable ail these statements about myself, although I
was not then aware of the serious discrepancies between them which
Mr. Hodgson has lately pointed out in the Journal (October and
November, 1886). In consequence of the change which was taking
place in my opinion, I wrote, on July 30th, 1885, to Mr. Farmer,
requesting him for" private reasons," not to make any reference to
myself, either directly or indirectly, in the work about Eglinton ('Twixt
Two Worlds) which he was then preparing for the press.
From a study of various exposures of slate-writing mediums, and
other incidents which have been privately brought to my notice, I
cannot now entertain a doubt that they have frequently practised
deception; and whether it is a fact that they, nevertheless, occasionally
obtain the help of "spiritual" beings, or manifest supernormal powers,
is a question upon which I have good reasons for being now very
sceptical. I do not profess to know how all the slate-writing tricks
are performed, nor have I ever asserted that my own performances
are identical with those of Eglinton. Hence, when Eglinton wrote to
me as follows :-
6, Nottingham Place, W.
June 10th, 1886.
DBAB. MR.. DAV:BY,
On my return to England the other day from Russia, I was informed
from a reliable source that Mrs. Sidgwick had stated at· a recent
meeting of the Society for Psychical Research, that she knew perfectly well
how to produce the phenomena of slate-writing, having been shown how
to do so by a gentleman who had had silvera! stSances with me, and who had
discovered the "trick." Yourname was mentioned as her informant.
As I do not believe this myself, as being directly opposed to what you
have both written and told me, viz., that you could produce writing to some
extent, but only when everything was prepared (as, for instance, the trick
slate sold in the shops for 511.) and not at all under the same conditions as
myself, I shall be glad if you will tell me whether I am rightly informed as
to your having given Mrs. Sidgwick the instruction into the mysteries of
slate-writing.-Believe me, yours very truly,
Digitized by Google
.Tan., 1887.] Journal of Society.for Psychical Research. 13
I felt justified in replying :-
June 14th, 1886.
DEAR MR. EGLINTON,
I have received your letter of the 10th inst., which, owing to my
absence from home on a short holiday trip, has not been answered before.
With regard to your question, it is quite untrue I have ever instructed
anyone in the modus opemndi of your slate-writing. Hoping your health is
better for your tour in Russia, believe me, yours very truly,
S. J. DAVEY.
I need scarcely remind my readers that Mrs. Sidgwick had never
made any such statement as Eglinton asserts he had obtained from
a reliable source.
Similarly, in a letter which I wrote to Eglinton on Aug. 2, 1886,
I said:
Spiritualism for some time past has ceased to interest me, as I now
regard the subject in a different light owing to certain circumstances having
come to my knowledge. I have before stated to you that I have never acted
as an exposer of your" slate-writing."
The publication of the above leads me to explain the chief reason
for my desiring temporarily that my identity with Mr. A., the "amateur
conjurer," should not be proclaimed. Until recently I had not
endeavoured myself to obtain written reports from persons who sat
",ith me, and I was desirous of obtaining them under as nearly as
possible the same conditions, as regards the mental attitude of the
sitters, as those obtained by professional mediums for slate·writing ; I
did not wish people to know with absolute certainty by my own
professions beforehand, that the slate-writing was only conjuring,
though I urged them to treat me as a conjurer, to use tests, and take
precautions against trickery, &c. In consequence of the prominence
given in certain quarters to my name in connection with slate-writing,
I assumed the professional name of David Clifford. The desirability
of this step may be illustrated by the following incident: A short
time ago, at a seance, I met a gentleman who spoke in very disparaging
tones of the performances of a certain amateur conjurer known as
Mr. A .. and who remarked to the effect that the statements of Jlrlrs.
Sidgwick as to this conjurer's powers did not in the least explain the
subject of "psychography." At the conclusion of my performance
this same gentleman (who knew me only under the name of Clifford)
declared in my presence and in that of his co-investigators that the
experiments he had just witnessed were more conclusive as to the
existence of supernormal phenomena than those he had witnessed in'
the presence of a well-known professional medium. Had he then
known I was Mr. A., the" amateur conjurer," I do not think he would
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
have shown such enthusiasm as regards the" incomparable" nature of
my phenomena.
I have now various reports, some of which relate to seances given
under my real name, others to those given under my professional name,
and I have done my best to get the sitters, when there were more than
one, to write out their accounts independently. .Few persons would
imagine how difficult it is for ordinary witnesses to accurately record &
slate-writing seance, even if they are very careful and quick observers ;
and ho"," prone the. majority of witnesses are to exaggerate or distort
records of events which they believe to be of an abnormal character.
I think it would be no easy task to expose an expert in slate-
writing, provided he had made up his mind not to give his investigators
the chance of doing so. A practised conjurer in this particular branch
of his profession soon acquires a sufficiently keen insight into character
to know when there is no risk of detection. If the performer has any
reason to think that any part of his trick will be seen, he can take
refuge in a blank seance; nor would it generally be the case that if
the trick were partly performed the observance of strict conditions by
the sitter would result not merely in failure, but in exposure, as Mr.
Massey seems to suggest. (Proceedings, Part X., pp. 93, 94.) I have,
several times, had to deal with this danger, and have always been success-
ful. Of course, cases will arise when, if the right steps are taken by the
sitter, exposure will result; and this is precisely what has happened on
more than one occasion, with, for example, Dr. Slade. There is one
danger to which I think a conjurer is liable, unless he is very careful, viz.,
to give too little credit to the shrewdness of a sitter, just as he probably
often gives too much. The remedy obviously would be to increase the
number of entirely blank seances. If I were forced to giye blank
seances to persons of whose keenness I was afraid, I should, of course,
frequently give blank seances to others whom I had no reason to fear,
and with whom I could produce marvellous phenomena whenever I liked.
I have found, moreover, that a blank sitting occasionally, with an in-
vestigator who at other times gets good results, makes the phenomena
look more mysterious than e,'er, and forms an additional reason in his
mind for not attributing the phenomena to conjuring. A plan, I under-
stand, that is very frequently adopted by a well-known American
medium, is to simulate sometimes, in a very marked manner, the ap-
pearance of trickery in his slate-writing. Not unfrequently one of his
investigators falls into the trap, observes what he supposes is a clear
case of deception, and demands an instant exposure of the slate.
The medium then protests against the "unwarrantable suspicion," and
finally reveals the slate, to the chagrin of his would-be exposer, who of
course finds it perfectly clean. Then, by a subtle process, the medium
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1887.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 15
does write on the slate, to the subsequent amazement of bis witness.
From the account of a recent exposure by a lady Spiritualistin America,
who detected Slade in the very act of writing, I understand that the
speed with which he wrote on a slate held under the table greatly
astonished the observer. I have good authority for belieTing that
the account is to be relied upon. (See New York Sunday Times, July
5tb, 1885.)
I may now briefly refer to the argument that" psycbography " must
be of an abnormal (or supernormal) character, since conjurers have been
unable to explain the phenomena. My own opinion, as that of an
amateur conjurer, has been claimed in its favour, but I have already
pointed out that this is only a misrepresentation of the facts of the
case, and that I was a deficient observer, and an ignoramus as regards
conjuring, when I wrote the l"eports favourable to Eglinton. At the
same time, I understand that certain conjurers have professed their
inability to explain the slate-writing of some mediums by conjuring.
But, after my own experiences, I am not at all surprised at this. That
the testimony of a specially skilled conjurer in this particular branch is
of value I do not deny, yet at the same time it does not, I think,
follow that he must therefore know all the secrets, such as one with
more experience might have acquired. If he is very confident of his
own ability to find out any trick and cannot explain the modus operandi
of the medium, he may possibly think it inexplicable by conjuring;
and the remarks made by Mrs. Sidgwick at the close of her article in
the Journal for December are particularly suitable to a case of this
kind. A very good instance of this has come under my notice.
When Eglinton was in Calcutta, Mr. Harry Kellar, a professional
conjurer, requested the "opportunity of participating in a seance, with
a view of giving an unbiassed opinion as to whether," in his "capacity
of a professional prestidigitateur," he could" give a natural explanation
of effects said to be produced by spiritual aid." Eglinton eventually
met Mr. Kellar, and the result was that Mr. Kellar came away utterly
unable to explain by any natural means the phenomena that he
witnessed; and he said that the writing on the slate," if my senses are
to be relied on, was in no way the result of trickery or sleight of hand."
This occurred early in 1882, and Mr. Kellar's opinion still continues to
be quoted in favour of the genuineness of Eglinton's phenomena. Yet
I am not aware that Mr. Kellar, before sitting with Eglinton, had any
special knowledge of the different methods of producing slate-writing
by conjuring, and I have little doubt, after reading his account of a
sitting in 1882, quoted in Light, October f6th, 1886, p. 481, that he
was ignorant of at least some of these methods. But this does not seem
to be my own view only; it seem!! to "be that of Mr. Kellar himself,
Digitized by Google
16 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [.Ja.n., 1887.
who since then has apparently turned his attention to slate-writing,
and has changed his former opinion about the genuineness of the
phenomena; he now professes to be able to "duplicate any perform-
ance given by mediums of whatever nature after he has seen it done
three times." This was mentioned to me by an American gentleman
whom I met recently, but I have also seen a notice of it in Light for
March 28th, 1885, p. 147, from which I have taken the above extract;
yet Mr. Kellar's former opinion, given, as I presume, when he was not
a special expert in slate-writing, is continually quoted by Spiritualists,
just as my own opinion, giyen when I was absolutely incompetent ~nd
knew next to nothing about conjuring in any form whateYer, has been
quoted as the opinion of a specially qualified conjurer.
I do not myself place much value upon the opinion of conjurers who
have not previously become thoroughly versed in the ways of deceiving
sitters in slate-writing; not only because of this incident in which
perhaps Mr. Kellar's over-confidence in his own powers of detection
led him into a mistake, although he has after long experience publicly'
proclaimed his disbelief in "mediumistic" phenomena, but also because
I haye myself been able to deceive a gentleman accomplished in general
conjuring.
On August 26th, 1886, I received a letter from a well-known pro-
fessional conjurer, whose programme includes several exposes of alleged
spiritualistic frauds. In his letter to me this gentleman* informed me
that he had heard a great deal about my slate-writing, and was most
anxious to witness the phenomena, as he had had seances with a well-
known professional medium; and he politely requested an interview
with me. He was a stranger to me personally, but I at once offered to
give him a seance, which was arranged for September 13th, 1886. At
the conclusion of the seancet he gave me his testimony as follt)ws :-
September 13th, 1886.
I can see no explanation by trickerY of the experiments in sla.te-writing I
have seen performed by Mr. Davey this evening.
(Signed),---
* I have not here disclosed the name of this gentleman as, since
I have informed him of my conjurin~ powerR, he has desired me not to do
so. His letter and testimony are in the nands of the Editor of the Journal.
t I had a curious experience with this gentleman. lasked him to think of
a number. A number which I thought would be right was then, without his
knowledge, marked on the slate by my process. I then asked him to tell me
the number he had thought of. He said 98. I lifted np the slate and showed
him the figures 98 that had been written before he had spoken. This may of
course haTe been merely an odd coincidence, but the fact ihat I have had
several son\ewhat similar experiences with other investigators led me to think
that there might be something of the nature of thought-reading in it. 1
endeavoured ro arrange some furiher experiments with Mr. --, but his many
engagements, and recently my serious illness, have prevented our meeting
again.
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 1'1
Some days afterwards he wrote to me as follows :-
September24th, 1886.
It gives me much pleasure to add my testimony to that of many others
you have, and I certainly can state that in some mysterious manner
which to me seemed quite inexplicable, writing appeared on slates which I
bad purchased myself, which had been previously thoroughly washed,
and while they were held together apparently very tightly. And it was
specially remarkable that the writing was in the very colour I asked for.
(Signed)---
Another professional conjurer was shown my locked· slate by an
investigator, the writing having been allowed to remain, and on hearing
the account of the witness, he offered an explanation, which was, how-
ever, entirely wrong; I instance his opinion merely for the sake of
pointing out that his great knowledge of conjuring in general did not
enable him to suggest an explanation which would I think have occur-
red to him if he had been skilled in the various special methods that
may be used by conjurers in connection with slate-writing.
It has sometimes happened that an investigator, who knew before-
hand that my performances were conjuring, has thought he had
obtained a clue to my methods, but in nearly every case where I have
suspected this, I think his discovery has only tended to perplex him
more than ever. Whilst visiting Professor Henry Sidgwick at
Cambridge some few months ago, I gave both Professor Sidgwick and
Mrs. Sidgwick two seances for slate-writing. Amongst other
phenomena, I obtained an answer on my locked slate, written under-
neath the question Professor Sidgwick had written. I had requested
Professor Sidgwick to keep special charge of the slate. He afterwards
concluded I had obtained some means of opening and writing on it,
and he informed me as to when and how he thought I had done this.
It is interesting to note that I did not in any way perform the trick in
the manner Professor Sidgwick surmised, as I have since proved to
him; he has informed me that my explanation was "completely
unexpected," a.nd he says:
"I was so satisfied with my own conjecture (difficult as it was for me to
imagine it actuallyrealised)that the method you actually used never occurred
to me-nor anything at all like it."
To those of my readers who are specially interested in the subject,
I may recommend a book entitled The Bottom Facts of Spiritualism,*
by Mr. John W. Truesdell, who seems to have had considerable
experience in slate-writing. He gi~es an interesting account in
Chapter XVI. of a slate-writing seance recorded by Mr. L. 'V. Chase, of
Cleveland, Ohio, and I have no doubt after my own experiences as a.
" Published by Carleton and Co., New York; and London: S. Low and Co.
C
Digitized by Google
18 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
producer of sl~te-writing that Mr. Truesdell's subsequent version of
the matter is the true one. In the Daily Courier of Syracuse, New
York, December 7th, 1872, Mr. L. W. Chase made the following
statements :-
" The medium (Mr. John W. Truesdell) then took up a common slate,
and, after carefully washing off either side, placed it flat upon the table,
with a bit of pencil, about the size of a pea, underneath. We then joined
hands, and after the lapse of about ten minutes, under the full glare of
gas-light, we could distinctly see the slate undulate, and hear the communi-
cation that was being written, a copy of which I herewith append :-' My dear
Brother,-You strive in vain to unlock the hidden mysteries of the future.
No mortal has faculties. to comprehend infinity.-CUARLOTTE.'
" The above lines were not only characteristio of my beloved sisterwhile
in the form, but the handwriting so closely resembled hers that, to my mind,
there cannot be a shadow of doubt as to its identity."
In reference to a further event, Mr. L. W. Chase adds:-
" A short communication from my mother (and iJ! her own handwriting)
was found plainly written."
I have quoted the above extracts since they serve. to show how a
person may be deceived in the matter of spirit identity; for Mr. John W.
Truesdell, at the close of Chapter XVI., frankly informs his readers
that he himself wrote the messages, and describes the methods he
employed. The resemblance between the handwritings was, I presume,
imaginary.
The fact that "messages" occasionally contain private family
details, &c., is often quoted as a proof of the Spiritualistic theory in
connection with slate-writing, but many persons would be surprised to
find how frequently a slate-writing conjurer may become possessed of
apparently private ma.tters in connection with his investigators, and they
should also not forget that peculiar chance coincidences sometimes occur.
It is not very long since I met a gentleman who was a perfect stranger
to me personally, and I depicted scenes to him that I knew had taken
place many years ago, with an accuracy that utterly bewildered him, and
I went into such private details of his family matters as convinced him
I had a strange insight into his past life. Yet this was merely due to a
chance coincidence. Some Dlonths previously these and other details
had been incidentally mentioned to me by a person well acquainted
with his history, and although he was not a public character, his name,
in connection with the events of which I had heard, became somehow
fixed in my memory. Nor is this the only experience I have had of a
somewhat similar character.
Then it must be borne in mind that when witnesses becoDle
deeply impressed with ~e wonder of the performance, they not un-
frequently give way to a little natural excitement, and whilst they
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1881.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 19
have laboured under the excitement I have picked up items of informa-
tion from the witnesses themselves, which when reproduced by me at
future seances have been declared" wonderful tests."
During the past few months I have given seances to many total
strangers who have applied to me for sittings. In some cases I have
given these performances away from my own residence, and I have
requested the investigators to use all possible caution to guard against
any trickery, leaving them, however, to make their own suppositions
concerning the mode of production of the phenomena. Latterly I have
stipulated that the sitters should write out reports as soon as possible
afterwards; and upon receiving these reports I have informed them
without delay that the phenomena were only conjuring. Formerly in
some cases I had given the sittings over and over again to the same
persons, with an occasional blank to stimulate their curiosity; neverthe-
less they never detected the modus operandi.
I shall now give some of the accounts* that I have received, but
before doing so I wish my readers to be clearly aware that the writing
performances described in the following records were due to my own
unaided powers as a slate-writing conjurer.
I shall begin by quoting a few brief statements of a general kind
merely in illustration of the impressions left upon some of those from
whom I did not exact a detailed report.
Statement o/MRS. JOHNSON.
My sisters and I being most interested in the subject of alate-writing and
anxious to see something of it, Mr. Davey kindly Arranged a meeting at his
bouse. We sat at an ordinary table iD. a well-lighted room, and writing was
quickly produced on the inner surface of one of two alates beld firmly
together, once by Mr. Davey and myself, at other times by my sisters and Mr.
Davey j at first just under the edge of the table, then above, and afterwards on
one of my sister's shoulders. This was the more wonderful as we had purchased
the slates on our way from the station. Of course between the slates were
placed three points of different coloured chalks, after '!.ChieM Mr. Davey asked
us in which colour the writing should appear, and itdid 80 in the colour we
elected, the slate being covered 'with writing. We are all quite certain that
the slates were never out of the hands of one or other of us, and we are
totally unable to accowlt for the slate-writing.
M. JOHNSON.
Statement 0/MR. SCODELL.
DEAR Sm,-
N O1Jember 25th, 1886.
I had the pleasure of attending .. seance given by you some few
months ago, and beg to relate what took place to the beat of my recollection.
* The originals of all the following accounts, together with the D&nl611 and
addre_ of tlie writers, have been sent to the Editor of the Journal.
t These worda added by Mrs. Johnson later.-S. J. D.
Digitized by Cldogle
20 Joumal of Society for P8ychical Besea?'ch. [Jan., 1887.
First, you produced a framed slate which folded, and upon which there
was a patent lock. You opened the slate, cleaned it perfectly free from
writing, put two or three pieces of crayon or pencil therein, locked it up, and
placed the key in the hands of one of my daughters, who was present. The
slate was laid on the table, and the hands of all of us were placed on and
around it. You then told us to think of some subject upon which we should
like a few lines, and to say the colour in which we should like them to appear.
This was left to one of my daughters. You then appeared to be invoking
the aid of some UDknown person, which appeared to be attended with con-
siderable mental agitation to yourself, and a slight scratching was heard, and
upon the slate being finally unlocked and opened, two or three lines of writing
appeared therein, and they were upon the subject my daughter had lent her
mind, and in the colour writing desired by us.
The next thing you did was to solicit us to take out any volume from your
bookcase, turn to a page, and fix our special attention on a passage. This I
did without your seeing the page or passage. The book was handed to you,
and you in a short time told us the right page and right paragraph.
I can only say that my daughters and myself were perfectly astonished
with your performance, and had we been predisposed to believe in
Spiritualism, we should have been convinced in such belief through your
seance, as the whole performance seemed to us a phenomenonincapable of any
explanation and not to be produced by any ord~ natural means.-Yours
faithfully,
R. W. SCOBBLL.
Mr. S. Davey, Jun.
S~nt of MRS. BARRETI'.
Your wonderful performance on the slate completely
puzzled me. I have not got over it y.et. Thinking over it as much as ever
I can. I am as far oft' having any idea about it as at first. You say you did
the writing, so I suppose you did; but how 7 That is what I want to know.
You gave me a clean slate without a mark or scratch of any kind upon it. I
examined it carefully, I sponged it with water, and at your desire I locked it
up and kept my eye upon it. When it was unlocked and the slate examined,
I discovered, to my astonishment, that it was written all over from top to
bottom. I never lost sight of the locked slate, and I never lost sight of
you; and as far as I could judge, it was impossible for you or anyone
present to have done it ; yet the wonderful fact remains; the slate was
perfectly clean: when it was locked up, and written all over when unlocked.
This is a mystery, and as I am unable to look through a wooden cover, I
cannot imagine a clue to it. Perhaps some of these days you will en-
lighten me.
Stateme~ of MISS STIDOLPH.
I have much pleasure in recording my recollections of a seance with Mr.
~. J. Davey. His powers are certainly marvellous, and while I have not the
very smallest belief in "Spiritualism" or "mediums" of any kind, believing
the things so called to be groBB deceptions, I waa amazed at my friend's scientific
skill. Apparently he has no appliances. I was lIeated with him at a small
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 21
table when he gave me the following astounding evidence of his powers. He
gave into my hands a slate which, when locked, looks like an ordinary box.
This box I opened, washed the slate, locked it, and took the key; for some
minutes we sat, he with one hand on mine, his other hand on the table.
Presently a faintscratehing was hearti. and continued some little time ; when
it ceased Mr. Davey unlocked the slate, and 10 ! it .was covered with clear,
distinct writing-a letter addressed to myself, and stating if I would wait a
little while the writer would go to the Cape and bring me news of my
brother. Then I again washed the slate; again it was locked, and again I
kept the key. Mr. Davey then asked me to take any volume I liked from
the library, to look at a page and remember the number of it. This I did,
and again we sat as Qefore. In a few moments the slate was unlocked, when
on it was written, not only the number of the page I had thought of, but
some of the words which were on the self-same page, and these not ordinary
words, but abstruse words, as the book I selected was a learned one. This I
considered a moat marvellous feat, and utterly incomprehensible. That the
scientific researches of my friend will lead to most important results I have
no doubt. His aim is to expose deception, and if this object be attained he
will benefit society and throw light on a subject which has hiMlerto been
considered to belong exclusively to the " powers of darkneBB."
E. STIDOLPH.
Twould mention that the shelves from which I took the book contained
hundreds of volumes, and Mr. Davey had no idea which I had selected as he
closed his eyes and went to the extreme end of the room.
E. S.
N O1Jembe'l' 25. 1886.
Proceeding now to more detailed accounts I will next quote from a
report by Miss J. H. Symons of one .of her seances with me. The
description of the incident of the' writing on the locked slate is im-
portant from several points of view, and I shall refer to it in a future
paper in connection with other incidents described by Miss Symons.
Slate-writing seance, November16th, 1885, at 14, Dean's-yard, with Mrs.
Sidgwick, and a medium whom I will designate as A..
Our sitting commenced at 7.45 p.m. We took our places round a deal
table in the following order :-The medium A at one comer, next him Mrs.
Sidgwick, and I opposite.
Neither Mrs. Sidgwick nor t had brought any slates, and we were,
therefore, obliged to use those brought by A. We sat in a good light, a
lamp and several candles were burning in different parts of the room. We
first washed the slates ourselves with water brought us by Mr. Podmore, so
that there was no question of its conta.ining any admixture of chemicals, by
which means writing might be produced, as has sometimes been suggested
to me ; the table, too, was above suspicion, having just been bought by Mr.
Podmore for this particular seance. After each one of us had separately
washed and dried the slates, one was marked by Mrs. Sidgwick, a piece of
pencil was placed on it, and it was held by A. under the table, who warned
us to wateh him very carefully, as he gave no promise'llOt to cheat, did we
Digitized by Google
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 188
give him the faintest opportunity for so doing, and who wished us distinctly
to understand that he did not claim to produce the phenomena he hoped to
show us, by spirit agency. Prior to placing the ordinary slate under the table,
we had washed and examined a small double folding slate, also belonging to
the medium. This slate was locked by Mrs. Sidgwick, who put the key in her
purse, and the purse in her pocket, and who sat upon the slate.
* * * * * *
We next tried for writing on the locked slate. I must remark here that
though we had sat on this slate during the greater part of the seance, we had
not done 80 throughout. We had left it on the chair when we turned to the
candles behind us to read the message. A. had quickly picked it up, and
asked us not to lose sight of it, as he wished to preclude all possibility of
fraud. He might, of course, in this moment have changoo the slate for one
on which a meBBage was already written, but the nature of the test we
obtained, I think, negatives this supposition; besides which, before it was
held under the table, Mrs. Sidgwick gave me the key, we unlocked the
alate, found no writing there, and after the slate was again locked, I put the
key in my pocket.
It was not proposed by A. that we should try to obtain a line from a
page of any book to be taken at random from Mr. Podmore's shelves. This
was done by Mrs. Sidgwick, who took care only-at A.'s request-to select
a book with good type. This book was shown to A., who opened it, looked
at the type, and considered it lufficiently clear. Mrs. Sidgwick placed it on
the table, and her and my handa rested on it, whilst A. and I held the small
locked slate under the table. It was at this point, after choosing her book,
that the slate had been opened, found clean, and the key given to me. It
was decided that Mrs. Sidgwick should think of the page of the book from
which the line was to be taken, and I of the line, counting from the top _of
the page, it being agreed-at A.'a wish-that to facilitate the test, we should
each think of a number below 10.
Again, so far as I could aee, we gave A. no opportunity for changing the
slate. I am quite certain that he did not do so whilst we were holding it
together. And in this case the message must have been written in our
p?'uenC8, as we did get a line copied from this very book, though not the line
of which we were thinking. When the slate was again unlocked, we found
writing on each side ; the message was to the effect that we were not
sufficiently en rapport with one another to get the best results as yet, but
that they were willing to give us some proof of their power. Then followed a
few words in inverted commas, -aflier which an illegible word, with which the
message broke off abruptly. Mrs. Sidgwick then explained that she
had been thinking of page 9, and I had thought of line 4. Mrs. Sidgwick
quickly turned to this page and Une, but no such words as those quoted were
to be found. A. suggested that the 9 in Mrs. Sidgwick's mind might have
been reversed and wrongly read as 6. We, therefore, turned to page 6, and
on the last line of that page and the first line of page 7, we found the words
for which we were looking.
In this case-admitting the genuineness of the phenomenon-there might
again have been thought-transference, for the book had been in both Mrs.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 23
Sidgwick's and A.'s hand, and either might have caught sight of these verJ
words. With this the s6ance ended, as A. expressed himself too tired to sit
any longer, and complained of a very bad headache. He seemed to suffer
much after each meBBage had beenproduced, and complained of great drynel8
of the throat.
JESSIB H. SYMONS.
Nov. 19th, 1885.
The following reports are by Mr. J. R. Rait and Mr. Rartnall J.
Limmer. These accounts were written independently, from notes taken
during the sitting. Mr. Limmer had had a successful seance with me
some months previously.
Report of MR. RAIT.
On Wednesday evening, the 8th September, 1886, at 7.30; I betook my-
aelf, in answer to a previous invitation, to the residence of Mr. S. J. Davey.
I had brought with me at his request three new common school slates
privately marked by me and of medium size, a box of &B8orted crayons, and
a book to take notes in. Arrived there I was introduced to Mr. Limmer,
who with Mr. Davey and myself formed the trio in whose presence the
manifestations which I am about to record took place.
At 8.30 p.m. we seated ourselves as shown in the diagram. }Ir. Limmer
BOOKCASE
/
I
LIMMER
CI
--,,
> ,.J.A.
~
<
\
PI to=
0(
A ~
~
MYSELF I, ~
~
WINDOW
A. ThIs Is where the Slate was held.
Bat directly opposite me, while Mr. Davey sat on my left, the gas burner
being directly overhead 80 as to distribute light equally on all surroundings.
Before I begin, however, I will call attention to the following facts.
1. During the whole s6ance, the gas, with but one slight exception, was
burning brightly. .
2. The slates used were the 3 already mentioned and a double one of
:Mr. Davey's of superior make, with ebony backs and fitted with a lock,
which, after having cleaned it and inserted a small fragment of slate pencil, I
locked, and at his request put it in the pocket of my coat, where it remained
-till used. With these slates there could not possibly be any tampering
as during the whole s6ance they never for one moment left the room.
Digitized by Google
24 JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Research.... Jan.,1881.·
3. While the writing was taking plac~ under the table Mr. Davey's
left hand was held by Mr. Limmer while his right with the exception of the
tops of his 4 fingers was full in my view.
4. The chalks used were my own, wrapped separately in paper, and before
the s6ance had never been taken out of the box.
5. A fact that appears to me most wonderful is, that the point of the
slate pencil or cl'lloyon was always worn and invariably formed part of the
last stroke.
At Mr. Davey's request I took .one of my new 'slates, cleaned, wiped it.
and placed a minute fragment of slate pencil on its surface, and held it UDder
the table at the comer of the table with my left hand pressing it :firmly all
A. SIa.te. B. Su1'face of Table.
~~
'r ~!.:------.....
J~' j
The dotted lines show that pa.rt of the Slate under the Table.
A. Extremity held by me. B. Held by Davey.
the time. Mr. Limmer held my right on one side and Mr. Davey'sleft on the
other, while Mr. Davey also supported the slate under the table with his
right; thus it will be seen that a chain was formed by the hands. After
remaining a few seconds thus.
Mr. Davey: "Are you there 1" No answer.
Mr. D: "Are you going to give us any answer this evening1" A
distinct ticking sound was here heard and after 3 seconds or so it;
stopped and I withdrew the slate; on it was an imperfect scrawl which no
one could decipher.
Mr. D.: " We will try again; please hold the slate :firmly; eng~e in
conversation; try and not concentrate the thoughts too much on one subject."
Mr. D. : "Are you going to give us any answers this evening or not ~
Now do try." This time the noise of the ticking of a pencil was most dis-
tinctly heard as if firmly and deliberately writing. I called Mr. Limmer's
attention to the fact and he informed me the writing was distinctly audible
o him. I withdrew the slate and on it distinctly written was YeB.
Mr. D.: "Will some one now ask a question 1"
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] JOU?"fU1.l of Society for P8ychical Research. 25
After some thought it occurred to me to ask what o'clock it was at present,
there being no timepiece in the room.
Mr. D. : "Will you kindly tell us what time it is 1" The ticking was
immediately resUlned. I watched Mr. Davey while seemingly talking to Mr.
Limmer, but could detect nothing suspicious in his movements; three dis-
tinct ticks were heard a.nd I put the slate on the table and examined it. It
was written in the same indistinct hand, and began with a scrawl, but in the
middle of the sentence I could decipher "nine" plainly. On asking Mr.
Limmer to look at his watch he replied that it wanted a quarter 'of an hour
to 9. On putting the. question" Will there be a war with Russia 1" we
got the vague reply "Perhaps." In reply to other questions the answers
obtained were" try chalk" (this refers to the difficulty experienced in dis-
tinctly writing on a new slate) and "answer Zater."
So flU" nothing striking had occurred beyond very scrawly writing, and
replies which might mean anything; blOt something better was in store
for us.
I now suggested a slight variation in the experiment, which both Mr.
Limmer and Mr. Da.vey agreed to. I will mention however that in the .
right-handed breast pocket of my coat I had placed a sealed envelope con-
taining some questions of a most impossible nature, and which I had written
on the afternoon of the 7th September, intending to produce them at the
MIlee with a view to getting them answered ; they being all the time in the
envelope and their contents unknown to anyone but myself. I determined
therefore to put the question, ,. What does the right-handed breast pocket
of my coat contain1"
Requested by Mr. Davey to clean and again privately mark my slates, I
did so; and at his request Mr. Limmer and I chose 3 fragments of chalk,-
pink, green, and blue. These 3 fragments were placed on the surface of one
of the slates. I then placed another slate on the top of this so that the
chalks were between. This time the slates were above the table; we joined
hands and began talking, the question concerning my coat pocket having
been put. It is important to note that during this experiment both of Mr.
Davey's hands were in view, also that the writing began almost instan-
taneously on joining hands. Mr. Davey became very agitated, his hands
slightly trembled under mine, and he occasionally gasped for breath as
though in pain. (These fits occurred at intervals throughout the seance and
always when the writing was taking place, but on no occasion did he move
either his hands or feet.) The writing distinctly continued, cool, deliberate,
and steady. I could even hear the occasional dashes as in stroking the t's,
&c.; it invariably seemed to come, away from Mr. Davey, immediately under-
neath my fingers. I could almost feel the chalk as it moved along ill ita
weird progress, guided by what mysterious agency I know not.
All at once Mr. Davey said, "Quick! ! in what colour will you have it
written 1" Pink was chosen. This is what appeared on lifting one slate
011':-
DEAR Sm,·-This experiment is a very difficult one, and we can but
rarely repeat it. (In green) You may rest assured that we shall do all u;our
power to answer (in blue) you this evening, but we are ,·ery anxious that you
Digitized by Google
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
--not--this question (in pink) simply on account of the---question we
will try and answer your question later on--and the--endeavour to
convince--any test you may suggest.
ERNEST.
The latter part written in pink. Part of the message we could not
decipher, and I accordingly cannot repeat it in full. This message occupied
about 2 minutes or less in writing, and was on the whole fairly well written.
'I'he next experiment was with Mr. Davey's closed slate. After it had
been produced from my pocket we laid it on the table locked and with the
small piece of pencil inside, joined hands as before and the question was
put, "Will the Emperor of Germany live through the present year 1"
Immediately the writing began, exactly the same as on previous occasions,
and when after the space of 4 minutes (about) I carefully unlocked the slate
we found the following wonderful message: "My Dear Sirs,-It is a
popular error that if we can produce this writing under these conditiolls we
might at the same time have a knowledge upon all questions of a mundane
nature. One is apt to forget that prophet seer and prophetess are children
all of 'mother guess,' and this rule applies to us. Yet for ourselves we can
foresee much to happen in in the year 1889, and to do this we need but carry
out the instructiolls of Bonnet(1) who said, 'Ne vouslassez jamais d'examiner
les causes des grands changements, puisque rien ne servira jamais tant a.votre
instruction.' Your test is a severe one, for we have not the gift of clairvoy-
ance to-night. On VII -- we think (or thank) your friend from time to
time in explanation of this mystery try your test again later on and we shall
succeed. We hope to--" (here the writing ends). This is clearly a direct
raply to all our questions, and "the severe test" referred to points, eyidently
to my coat pocket's contents. What the mysterious VII. means I do not know,
except that it may have some allusion to the 7th September, the day on
which I wrote the questions. This belief is strengthened by the answer we
got in trying to find out the writing after the Roman letters VII. later on ill
the evening, and which read (as much as we could make out of it) Septem.
This long message was to my mind the most marvellous result of all, and its
effect was strongly marked on Mr. Davey, who seemed in a state of great
prostration, and called for a glass of water.
Mr. Davey then placed a slate on two small boxes which rested on the
table, thus; 3 pieces of chalk,-blue, pink, and red-were then chosen and
Digitized by Go
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 27
placed on its surface (the slate) and over the chalk was placed a tumbler;
tho gas was slightly lowered, and we were told to say what figure we would
like to have drawn. I chose an octagon, Mr. Limmer chose a square. I saw
a piece of chalk slightly move and on lifting the glass we saw two very indis-
tinct mar!ts. We however resolved to try again. This time the red piece of
cllalk distinctly moved, but very quick. Lifting the tUlnbler wo found thiS
figure I which evidently was intended for part of Mr. Limmer's
square.
I desired after this to have the writing on the double sIa.te of Mr. Davey's
continued at the point where it had been broken off, and obtained this result
on one of my slates which I held underneath the table and which began
immediately. "We hope to see you again-Joey." I was also anxious to
know what tlle VII signified as I have already said before ;-on the first
attempt we got the answer-" good-bye Joey"-but we were more
successful on again putting the question, the result being a distinct
.. Septe-" ; whether, as I have already said, it was intended for Septem-
ber I cannot tell. .
As it was getting late (10.30) tho seance concluded. In finishing this
statement I will add that for my part I am "an outsider," have
never before given slate-writing or Spiritualism a thought uutil Mr.
Davey lent me "Psychography" and a copy of Light dated 8th
November, 1884, and invited me to relate my experiences as t.hey
appeared to my senses of sight and hearing only; which I have
endeavoured to do in as complete a manner as possible. What the agency is
that moves the fragment of pencil I know not; I leave that for the ,o;oo,nu.
It is a wonderful thing that part of an answer was written in French, a
language totally unknown to Mr. Davey. Also that 3 colours were employed
in writing another answer. Trickery to my mind is utterly impossible in any
respect. How it is all done I cannot tell; my advice to the .. scoptics" is
•• go and judge for yourselves." JOHN H. RArr.
10/9/86.
Report of MR. LIMMER.
On Friday, tho 8th September, 1886, I had the privilege of being
present at a "Spiritualistic" seance given by Mr. S. J. Davey at his
residence • . . Mr. Herbert Rait was the only other
person present besides Mr. Davey and myself.
The only table used was a small one which Mr. Davey informed us was
technically known as a " Pembroke." This table I thoroughly examined and
nothing that could aid Mr. Davey in any way could I discover. The proceed-
ings then commenced by placing a common alate, bought that evening and
marked by Mr. Rait, under the comer of the table and supported in that
position by the right and left hands of Mr. Dayey and Mr. Rait respectively,
while I completed the circle by holding their disengaged hands. The question
•• What is the time 1" was then asked by Mr. Rait, and after a Mort
interval I distinctly heard writing, but on looking at tho slate the answer
was not readable: the question was therefore repeated and shortly after the
Di~itized by Google
28 Journal of Society .for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
word "nine" was obtained. The next question asked by Mr. Rait was
.. Will there be a war with Russia or not 1" in reply to which we received
the word "Perhaps." The same gentleman then asked .. Will the Emperor
of Germany live through the year 1" Instead of receiving a direct reply the
words "Try chalk" were found 'written upon the slate, and on adopting
that suggestion we obtained the single word "later."
I may mention here that all the chalk and slates (with the exception of
the" locked slate" mentioned later on in this report) used during the even-
ing were brought by Mr. Rait, and had never been in the possession of Mr.
Davey.
The next test was that of two common slates being placed upon the table,
one above the other, the frames of whichfitted so accurately that it appeared
utterly impossible to insert anything by which the pencil ,could be put in
motion. These slates were previously examined by Mr. Rait and myseH.
Green, pink, blue and red chalk having been inserted by Mr. Rait, the circle
was again formed in the mauner before described, Mr. Davey having this
time, though, both hands placed upon the top slate. The question, "What does
my rIght hand breast coat pocket contain 1" was put by Mr. Rait, and it was
agreed that the colour in which the answer should be written should be pink.
I distinctly heard the chalk passing rapidly between the slates, and in
about two minutes we had the following message before us.
(In pink)'
"DEAR Sm,
"This experiment is a very difficult one, and we can but rarely
•• repeat it. (In green.) You may rest assured that we shall do all in our
" power to answer (in blue) you this evening, but we arc very anxious that
" you should not put this question (in pink again) (word not plainly written
"here) simply on ale of the (word not readable) question. We will try and
.. answer your question later on, and the (word not readable) endeavour to
" convince (word not readable) any test you may suggest.
" ERNEST."
At this stage of the proceedings Mr. Davey appeared to be rather
exhausted, and drank a glass of water.
Mr. Davey then produced a "locked slate," which I examined moat
minutely, and as far as I was able to judge, the surfaces were genuine slate
and had not undergone any process of preparation which would aid him in
obtaining writing. A small crumb of pencil was inserted, and the slate
closed and locked by Mr. Rait. The key was then given into my possession.
We then placed our hands in an exactly similar position as before, and
Mr. Rait having repeated the question "Will the Emperor of Germany live
through the year 1" I very soon heard the pencil travelling over the surface
of the slate. After the lapse of about four minutes the slate was carefully
unlocked by Mr. Bait, and the pencil very much worn was found at the
place where the writing ended.
The lines on the first side of the slate ran in a diago~ direction from left.
to right, but on tho second side it was done in the usual manner, i.e., from
side to side. The writing was of a very neat character and the majority of
the letters were well formed. The following is a copy of tho letter.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 29
"MyD.BAR SIRS,-It is a popular error that if we can produce this writing
" under these conditions we might at the same time have a knowledge upon all
" questions of a mundane nature. One is apt to forget that • Prophet, seer,
" and prophetess are children all of Mother Guess ' and this rule applies to
" us, yet for ourselves we can forsee much to happen in in (the word • in '
"occurred twice here) the year 1889 and to do this we need but carry out
" the instruction of Bonnet (this name was indistinct) who said • Ne vous
" • lassez jamais d'examiner les causes des grands changements puisque rien
•• • servira jamais tant avotre instruction.'
* .,Your test is a severe one for we have not the gift of clairvoyance
"to-night on VII oz we think (or thank) your friend from time to time
"in explanation of this mystery.
"Try your test again later on and we shall succeed.
"We hope
_----,L---_Saw Pencil lay here, on carefully opening the S;ate.
The writing having stopped 80 abruptly, two ordinary slates were placed
upon the table in the manner before described, and it was asked by Mr.
&it that the letter should be concluded. Within a period· of 15 seconds
from the time of asking such question and after completing the circle with
our hands. the words "to see you again, Joey," were written.
The two slates were again placed in the same position as before, and Mr.
Rait having put an unimportant question, after the completion of the circle as
before, I saw upon the slate" Good-bye, Joey" ; but on a second trial a
scrawl was obtained which looked very much like" Sept. Joey" but it was .
inlpossible to say definitely what it was intended for.
The final test to which Mr. Davey was subjected was that of writing
under an inverted tumbler under the following conditions. An ordinary
tumbler was inverted and placed upon one of the slates brought by Mr.
&it. This slate was raised slightly from the table and supported by two
small boxes placed under the ends of the slate. Blue, pink, and red chalk
were then placed under the glass by Mr. Rait, and after joining hands, Mr.
&it asked that an octagon should be formed with the red chalk. After
waiting for a few minutes the red chalk was seen to make two short lines
almost at right angles to one another, thus, T. The sametest, after the
slate had been cleaned, was repeated, imd with precisely the same result. I
* This probably refers to some questions which Mr. Rait had written and
enclosed in a sealed envelope and placed in his breast coatlocket and known
only to himself. It will be remembered he previously aske "What does my
right-hand breast coat pocket contain ! "
Digitized by Google
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [.Tan., 188•.
then asked that a square should be formed by the red chalk, and two sides
of it were made almost instantly, and in the colour required. Although
looking to within a few inches of the tumbler and seeing the pencil move I
failed to discover anything w~ch could have caused it to do so.
I can only say that the whole thing was totally inexplicable to me, and
to the best of my belief it was impossible for Mr. Davey to have produced
any of the above results by the aid of trickery, as he did not appear in any
way to try to divert my attention either from himself or the slates, and 1
watched him as closely as it was possible throughout the whole proceedings.
HAR'tNALL J. LIMMER.
The following report is by a lady whom I shall call Mrs. Y., whose
husband is a member of the Council of the American Society for
Psychical Research. I have the independent reports of Mr. Y. and
Miss Y., and I propose to give these in a future paper.
Report of MR8.--- .
On the evening of September 10th, 1886, I went with my husband and
daughter to a room in Furnival's Inn, to witneBB the slate-writing perfornlancea
of Mr. Clifford. On our way we stopped' at a stationer's, and my husbllolld
purchased three perfectly new ordinary school slates. We found Mr.
Clifford to be a young man of manifest intelligence and great earnestness of
scientific purpose. He impressed me as being thoroughly honest and above
all trickery. He also impressed me as being in a very critical state of health,
and I should say the nervous strain of his slate-writing performances was
most injurious to him. .
We seated ourselves at an ordinary Pembroke table, brought out of the
kitchen attached to the chantbers belonging to the friend who had loaned his
room for the occasion. A piece of chalk was placed on one of our slates, and
the slate was held tightly up against the underside of the table leaf by one of
Mr.Clifford's hands and one of my daughter's. Their thumbs were on top of
the table, and their hands spread underneath on the underside of the slate.
I held Mr. Clifford's other hand, and we all joined hands around the table.
I watched the two hands holding the slate without a moment's intermiBBion,
and I am confident that neither Mr. Clifford's hand nor my daughter's moved
in the least during the whole time. Two or three questions were asked
without any sign of response. Then Mr. Clifford asked rather emphatically,
looking hard at the comer of the table under which they were·
holding the slate, " Will you do anything for us~" After this question had
been repeated three or four times, a scratching noise was heard, and on
drawing out the slate a distinct " Yes" was found written on it, the chalk
being found stationary at the point where the writing ceased. As my eyes
were fixed uninterruptedly on bOtll my daughter's hand and on Mr.
Clifford's also, and as I certainly had fast hold of his other hand all the time,
I feel confident he did not write this word in any ordinary way. This
same result was obtained two or three times. But Mr. Clifford did not
seem to think it was enough of a test, and he proposed that we should try
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society fOT Psychical Resta1·ch. 31
it with the slate on the table in full sight of us all, with a candle burning
brightly in the middle of the table.
He gave me a locked slate of his own, which I thoroughly washed and
locked myself, and put the by in my own pocket. We then joined hands,
and Mr. C. and my daughter placed one hand each on the slate as it was
lying on top of the table. Di1ierellt questions were asked, and we waited
some time, but no respOllse came. Mr. Clifford seemed to me very much
exhausted, and I urged him to dl'sist from any further efforts. But he
seemed loth to do this, and said he would rest a little while, and would then,
perhaps, be able to go on. After a short time of conversation, the slates all
the while being in full view and carefully watched by me, we again tried it,
under the Bame conditions as before, only that this time Mr. C. requested
us each to take a book at random from the shelves in the room, and mentally
think of two numbers representing a page and a line, and he would see if he
could reproduce it. This also failed of any result, and Mr. C. said he
feared he was too tired to produce anything, as he had been very much
exhausted by a long and very successful seance the night before. We again
begged him to desist, but after a short rest, during which he walked into the
next room for fresh air, I thought, he insisted on another trial. The slates
still remained all the time in full view on the table. Mr. C. asked my
daughter to choose another book, which she did at random, he having his
back to her and standing at some distance while she did it. This book was
at once tied up and sealed by one of the party, Mr. C. never touching
it from first to last. I then held it in my lap, while we joined hands as
before, and Mr. C. and my daughter each put one hand on the slate.
Still nothing came. Then we changed positions, and I placed my hand on
the slate instead of my daughter, giving her the book to hold. During this
change she kept her hand on the slate until I had placed mine beside it, and
the book was awaiting her on the opposite side of the table, my husband all
the while holding Mr. C.'s other hand. I am confident that Mr. C. could
not possibly have manipulated the slate during this change, for it was
in full sight all the while, and our hands were on it, and the book was tied
and sealed on the opposite side of the table. A few minutes after this
readjustment Mr. C. seemed to have a sort of electric shock pass through
him, the perspiration started out in great drops on his forehead, and the
hand that was touching mine quivered as with a nervous spasm. At once we
heard the pencil in the slate moving, and in a few moments Mr. Clifford
asked me to unlock the slate. My daughter took the key out of her pocket
and handed it across the table to me, and I unlocked the slate, and found it
covered on both the inner sides with writing. When read, this writing
proved to be a sort of essay or exhortation on the subject of psychical
re3earch, with quotations from the book chosen intermingled throughout. I
forgot to say that Mr. C. had asked us all to choose in our minds two
numbers under ten to represent a page and a line of the book, but had finally
concentrated his thought on what my husband was thinking. In the writing
there were quotations from every page we had any of us thought of, but not
always the line; but in the case of mf husband the line was correct, but
not the page. He had thought of page 8, line 8. The line was quoted
Digitized by Google
32 Journal o/.Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
from page 3, and Mr. C. said this confusion between 8 and 3 quite
frequently occurred, because of the similarity of the numbers. This test
seemed to me perfect. The slate was under my own eye on top of the table
the whole time, and either my daughter's hand or my own was placed firmly
upon it without the intermission of even a second. Moreover, we closedand
opened it ourselves.
After a short rest, Mr. Clifford asked us to wasil two of our own slates
and put them together, with pieces of chalk of different colours between,
and all of U8 to reach across the table and hold them all together. This we
did, and then Mr. C. asked my husband to choose mentally three colours he
wished used in writing. After all holding the slates closely pressed together
for a few minutes, we placed them on the table, and Mr. C. and I placed our
hands on them while the rest joined hands. In a few moments the same
sort of electric shock seemed to pass through Mr. C., and his hand and arm
which were on the slates quivered nervously, and immediately a scratching
noise was heard. He then asked me -to lift one slate off the other, which I
did, and found one side covered with writing in three colours, the very three
my husband had mentally chosen. I am perfectly confident that my hand
was not removed from the slates for one single instant, and that I never lost
sight of them for a moment.
By this time Mr. C. seemed to us to be 80 much exhausted that we begged
him to give up any further tests, but he insisted on trying one more, which
was as it proved the most remarkable of all.
He placed one of our slates on three little china salt-cellars that lifted it
up a.bout an inch from the table. Upon the middle of this he placed several
pieces of ditrerent coloured chalks, and covered them with a tumbler. Then he
told my husband to form a mental picture of some figure he wished to have
drawn on the slate under the glass, and to name aloud the colour he would have
it drawn in. He thought; of a cross, and chose aloud the blue colour. J sug-
gested that blue was too dark to be easily seen, and asked him to take white,
which he agreed to. We sat holding hands and watching the pieces of chalk
under the tumbler. No one was touching the slate this time, not even Mr.
C. In a few minutes, Mr. C. was again violently agitated as with aD. electric
shock, which went through him from head to foot, and immediately after-
wards we sa1C, with our own eyes, each one of us, the pieces of chalk under
the' glass begin to move slowly, and apparently to walk of their own accord
across the space of the slate under the tumbler. My husband had said just
before that if the piece of red chalk under that tumbler moved, he would
gi,e his head to anyone who wanted it, so sure was he that it could not
possibly move. The first piece of chalk that began to walk about _
was that
very red piece! Then the blue and white moved simultaneously, as though
uncertain which was the one desired. It was utterly astounding to all of us
to see these pieces of chalk thus walking about -under the glass with no
visible agency to move them! All the while Mr. C., whose hands were held
on one side by myself and on the other side by my husband, seemed to be
on a great nervous strain, with hot hands and great beads of perspiration.
When the chalks stopped moving, we lifted the tumbler, and there was Do
cross, partly blue and partly white, and a long red line marking the path
Digitized by Google
Journal of Society j01' Psychical Research.
. . :13
Jan., 18Si.]
taken by the red chalk! We were impressed by this test beyond the power
of words to declare. The test conditions were perfect, and the whole thing
took place under our eyes on top of the table with no hands of anybody near
the slate. This was the close of the evening's performances.
Upon reading over my account I see that I have put the leaving of the
lYJOm by Mr. C. in the wrong place. It should have been just before the
writing on our slates with coloured chalks instead of just before the
writing on the locked slate. But in either case the slates were all the
time in full view on the table with the rest of us who remained behind.
I consider the test conditions to have been perfect throughout, and see
no possible explanation for the very remarkable phenomena that occurred.
MRS. - -
September 14th, 1886.
The sitting described by Mr. Legge in the following letter took
place on the sa.me evening as the seance described in the foregoing
report by Mrs. Y., September lOth, 1886.
Report of 1\lR. LEGGE.
12th. September, 1886.
My DEAR HODGSON,-
I said I would let you have a straightforward account of what I
saw in your chambers on Friday evening; here it is, written while my
recollections arc distinct. I had been sitting with Hughes, who told me
you had a s~ance on. We were talking on various Bubjects, a.nd never
touched that of the s~ance going on in the next room, so that in fact I
Boon forgot all about it. Presently however the door opened, and you
came in with Mr. --, whom I had never seen before, and behind him were
his wife and daughter. A little embarrassed by sudden introductions, 1
passed out into the entry to your rooms, and there saw for the first time
Clifford (the name, is it not 1). In a few minutes the ---s left, and I
went into the room where the s~ance had been. There I was introduced to
Clifford, who suggested, after some talk on what had gone before, that I
might like to see something.
I jumped at the proposal, and as a preliminary took Clifford's locked
slate, opened it, and cleaned it (or rather cleaned it again, for it was clean
-already), then, having slipped in a bit of pencil,locked it, and put the key in
my pocket, keeping the. slate also in my hand or under my arm all the time
afterwards. Next I chose one of your slates, cleaned it, and, at Clifford s
request, having put a fragment of pencil upon it, slipped it under the table,
so as just to cover it with the slab, the pencil of course being on the upper
surface. The table was a plain deal one, and I satisfied myself that there
were no projections on the under-surface which could leave a mark. We then
formed contact, Cliftord's right hand being partly on my left and partly on
the slate, i.e., where his hand overlapped mine which held the slate pressed
against the table. The faint sound of writing was distinctly audible, and
when it ceased I drew the slate out. There were merely indistinct scrawls
upon it. But it appeared that I ought to have asked a question to myself,
and so extracted an answer from the slate. So after I had cleaned the slate
D
Digitized by Google
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea'l'ch. [Jan., 1887.
I thought of a question. I acted precisely as before. The sound of writing
was again heard, a.nd the slate, when I drew it out, bore clearly and
distinctly written the word" yes"-the final letter of which was done in
particularly admirable style. The question had reference to some doubtful
increase in my official saJary, and I am bound to aay I was as much delighted
as astounded by the mysterious writing. The next experiment was the
placing of 3 bits of coloured chalk on the table, and of a clean slate
(selected and placed by myself) oyer them. I put my hand on the slate,
Cli1ford his on mine, and we joined contact. Again we heard the·sound of
writing, and when I lifted the slate there was written large and neatly in
the coloured chalks (three lines or so in each colour) this message;-
"Don't you think I've done enough for you to-night I'm tired Joey."
I noticed the chalks seemed worn, showing signs of work, just like the.little
bit of pencil in the previous experiment.
After this Cli1ford asked me to write a question in chalk on one of your
slates. While I was writing it he asked for a drink of water, and you
pointed to a comer of the room where there was some. He went there and
when he came back seemed to have forgotten his request for he now asked
me for the locked slate, which I bad latterly put in my pocket. I brought it
out, placed it on.the table, set my hand on it, Cli1ford his on mine, and
joined contact just as before with Hughes and yourself, Hughes holding my
right and your left, you Cli1ford's left. Then we heard the same writing
sound, very faint this time, a.nd after a considerable interval I was told to
take up the slate and unlock it. Taking the key out of my pocket I did so,
and saw written on both leaves a long message, precisely as I give it ;-" If
you don't believe in spirit power after this you are not worth the attention
of any honest medum (sic) Joey." After this, Cli1ford, who seemed
pretty tired, had to rush off to catch a train. I should add that the room
had been in full lamp light all the time, the lamp being placed on a side
table thus throwing a certain light under as well as over the table we were
sitting at. Also that the contact was not continuously perfect, for I
remember that Hughes and yourself occasionally left one hand free for a.
short time, and lastly that there was nl;> enforced silence.
The above are the facts as detailed as I ca.n give them; I offer no com-
ment on them for indeed I can't. Though I had heard of such experin;ents
before, personal experience was entirely new to me, and has left me in
immense perplexity.
If you see Cli1ford, please thank him for his kindness in troubling after
an already long sitting to give me some specimens of his" craft," or whatever
name one can give so nameless a faculty. I am also sincerely obliged to
Hughes and yourself.-Yours,
J. G. LEGGB.
The next report is by Mr. Padshah. This gentleman had had some
previous experience with a well-known medium, but had not been con-
vinced that the phenomena which he had witnessed in the medium's
presence were not the result of trickery. His account of his seance
with me shows that he was in some respects a careful observer, and that
Digitized by Google
.Tan.,l887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 35
he was still more careful in recording his remembrances. I also append
portions of the accounts given by Mr. and Mrs. Russell of the first part
of the sitting.
Report of MR. PADSHAlI.
1, Furnival's Inn, London.
Sept. 15, 1886.
This evening in Hodgson's room we had a seance with Mr. Clifford; Mr.
and Mrs. Russell, Mr. F. S. Hughes, Hodgson and myself being the
party. Before sitting I had some interesting conversation with Mr. C. about
the results usually got by' him and some which I had with Eglinton. Mr. C.
in course of the conversation told me he was very anxious that his results
should be tried and watched like those o( any professional medimn, and
indeed, his subsequent proceedings were very agreeably contrasted with
those witnessed at the professional seances. There was every apparent
desire to get the conditions named by members of the party, and to
see that results were obtained under those conditions. I had suggested in our
preliminary conversation how important it might be to get my own name-
not surname-which no one except myself in the room knew. The slates on
which we desired the writings were three of them Hodgson's, three I
had bought this evening at Lilley's, Cambridge, and Ol1e Mr. C.'s own double
slate. I regret that desiring to add some friends to the party, I had left the
rooms to call upon those friends, and during that interval, Hodgson and
Mr. Hughes being busy, we necessarily could not keep the slates in our eye
for a short interval during which Mr. C. was in the room.
Well, we commenced, I sitting all the time next to Mr. C., except once,
when Mrs. Russell and I interchanged pla~es, with no advantage; and so we
resmned the original order. There was full light on every corner of the table ;
two of my (1) slates, one washed by myself, the other by ?tlr. C., were put
very nearly in the centre with a number of small chalk-pieces between them
of different colours- (five in all, I find now on inquiry from Hodgson--red,
blue, green, yellow, white"":'but which I was not sure of. then, not having
noticed them). Under the table with the frame projecting on Mr. C.'s side,
was a single slate, also mine, I believe, and washed by I do not know whom,
Mr. C. supporting it on his side .by the four fingers underneath, and
the thmnb over the table in sight of all; his left hand joining with that of
Mr. Russell's right, Mr. R.'s left with Mr. Hughes' right, Mr. Hughes' with
Mr. Russell's, and Mrs. Russell's left with my right, all resting either on the
table, or otherwise always in sight; and my left supporting also the slate. just
the same as Mr. C.
Between the slate and the table were put successively chalks and a small
pencil, the chalks being crushed, and therefore given up. Mr. C. and Mr.
Russell often put their hands on the pair of single slates. Mr. C.'s double
slate, not washed, I believe, that I can remember, but locked up uy myself
carefully, with the key always in my pocket or on ~y RIGHT hand near Mrs.
Russell, never out of my view, was in my charge, generally being behind Illy
back. For some time there seemed to be no result, Mr. C. telling us that he
felt no "go" in the thing, and asking me if it was not due to my undue sceptic-
D 2
Digitized by Google
36 Journal 0/ Society /0'/' Psychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
ism. Of course I assured him that my failing was rather in the reverse direc-
tion. The conversation was generally on SpirituaJism.c subjects, being mostly a
good-humoured discussion of the experiences of some Spiritualists. On Mr.
C.'s asking me to select a particular colour of chalk to write between the two
slates, I suggested white; but we never got it. He then wished me to fix my
mind on a particular number. I selected five (5), and drew an image of it
before my mental eye. The number we got was, however, 6 ; and I must
say, that but for the horizontal stroke, I myself would be unable to dis-
tinguish often between my 5's and 6's. Mr. C. then asked if there were going
to be any manifestations-the answer was legibly "yes." Then we asked for a
writing on one of the pair of slates, of mixed colours, mine being blue, and
Mrs. Russell's selection red. Sometimes I think we all put our hands on the
pair of slates, and then both Mr. C.'s hands were in full view, and there
could be no mistake of what they were doing,-viz., that they were shaking
sometimes with great force, at the same time that his teeth were chattering.
Howeyer, before any writing came there as asked for, we had first a' meBBage on
the single slate "Wait," and at another time, I noticed (without any clear
sound of writing as was unmistakeable during the two previous cases}--and I
believe nobody had observed it before I drew their notice-a message on one
side of the slate, ." Try the (1) chalks." Well, now we all concentrated our
attention on the pair of slates very nearly in the centre; and I thought, as
requested, of two numbers, 5, '1 ; Mr. C. very shortly after a deal of shaking
of his hands, at length said that we might see the slates. There, to my
surprise, I beheld a mellB&ge forsooth, in two coloured pencils, -blue and red,
which I copy below.
(Blue Pencil):
" We are very pleased to be' able to give you this writing under these
conditions, which must or ought at least to the ordinary mind do away
with the pOBBibility of it being produced by ordinary means.
(Red pencil):
"If you will be kind enough to wait patiently you may rest assured we
will do our best to do more for you.
" EARNEST."
I forgot to say that before this writing appeared, on the large slate, instead
of the numbers we wanted, we got written "Boorzu.·' Now this as it
happens is the original Persian, the modern corruption of which is my initial
name. This would be extraordinary except that it might have happened by
accident and also I had not time enough to see the last" u " before the word
was wiped off by Mr. C.
Then we tried to get some results with books, but as it appeared to me
Mr. C. had read almost every book in Hodgson's library, it was not easy
to select one to preclude the hypothesis of thought-transference. So we
attempted to get numbers again, and I concentrated my attention on the same
two previous numbers (5, '1); we soon got the '1 on the single slate, but instead
of the 5, we got "Think Book." Mr. C. desired me to think of 011e; my
mind was unsettled between The Brain a. an Organ of Mind, by Bastian,
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society t01' P8ychical Research. 37
and International Law, so to avoid any interference with the conditions,
I pitched upon the periodical Mind. Mr. and Mrs. Russell having left us,
we all conaentrated our attention on the double closed slate, which, on.
opening at frequent intervals, we had found unwritten. The key was now
in my pocket, that is certain, for on seeking to open it, I found it entangled
with the coppers in my waistcoat pocket. The double slate was also un-
doubtedly locked, for I carefully locked it myself. I mentally, as before,
concentrated my attention on getting the word "Mind" written within.
After some time Hodgson said he heard the sound of writing, and on opening
it we found the slate full. The following is the text :-
"This phenomenon is not Spiritualistic, nor is it the projection into
objectivity through the higher faculties unfolded by the abnormal issues of
human developments-'Mediumship'1 Yes. But mediumship of WHAT 1Do
you think you could appreciate if we were to tell you 1 Ah no ! The Spooks
of one, the Adepts of another, the transcendental Egos of another, and the
fourth dimensions of a fourth, are but the frantic struggling dreams of the
dark and ignorant present human race who have not acquired the possibility
of COlfCEIVING even all approximation to t.he real solution.
" Your own predominant desire is to explain, but for these and kindred
facts, it will be ages before the loftiest soul can touch the true theory, as we
find it exhibiting no distinct changes of form, and if impossible with one or
more vibration.
" The Brain AN organ of Mind, ha! we laugh."
This completes the text. I opened the slate myself, and I found some
scratches made by the pencil over the writing. Also the facet seemed to
have worn out a little by writing. After this we made some fruitless efforts
at getting something, but we could not, and in a very short time we adjourned.
As the table round which we sat was removed, Hodgson pointed out that it
was beyond suspicion,-a fact which I had omitted to notice.
How came, now, the writing between the pair of slates, and in the closed
double slate 1 About the former, it is certain that the slate on which the
writing came was one' of the thrce I had purchased that evening at Cam-
bridge; as was attested by its size corresponding with the two others marked,
and also by the shape of the frames, and the cracks in them noticed by
Hodgson. I confess I do not remember even after such a brief lapse of time,
whether I had examined the two slates not washed by me, and found them
unwritten. I imagine I must have, for otherwise it would be very stupid;
and, besides, if there had been any writing it would not have escaped the
notice of.Mr. Russell, who seemed to be particularly careful. Besides, we
constantly looked to see if there was any writing there. Of collrse, a con-
jurer of ordinary pretensions could deceive on the last point. There might
be writing on the bottom surface of the lower slate, while we could observe
only the three upper surfaces, if so many. Before we saw the writing there,
Mr. C. gave a push, and though I am almost sure that it was I who removed
the upper slate, and found the writing there, I am afraid I cannot be certain.
Indeed, I doubt if I can with any confidence assert whether the writing was
on the lower surface of the upper slate, or the upper surface of the lower
slate, even if I was certain that it was not on the lowest face. When I re-
Digitized by Google
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ja.n.,l887.
member that Mr. C. is deliberately anxious to be tried by no other than a
conjurer's standard, and also that I have omitted to notice things so elemen-
tary, and yet so essential, even some of them actually suggested for my
observation by Mr. C., I regret I did not ask some one else of the party to
observe and act. For it is evident that if I did not see the slates clean on aU
the surfaces before commencement, my testimony becomes absolutely value-
less. But now suppose that we have satisfaction on these heads, still
it may be considered possible that the writing may be. precipi-
tated by chemical means. Whether, if the writing disappears under
the influence of water, the chemical theory may still hold, of course I can-
not say. But if so, it is curious that Mr. C. could]YU8k the slates at a par-
ticular moment; and before that none of us could notice, in tha.t full light,
any formation of letters, or gradual precipitation, that I can see. Besides,
Mr. C. could barely have had time enough to tamper with the slates. He
told me himself that he had observed them lying. He had almost 40
minutes to himself, with little intervals, when Hodgson would come in. He
might during that interval have written out all the first message, without
using a chemical; in that case we are all guilty of gross negligence which it
is ridiculous to credit my colleagues with. But he might have also used a
chemical; only he could not have foreseen the opportunity of my going out ;
and as everyone is supposid to bring his own slates, why he should carry
about chemicals with him it is diflicult to see. In this connection I may also
observe that Mr. C. remarked to me during our conversation after tea, how
great the temptation is for the occultist to be fraudulent; when pecuniary
remuneration is not the object, "the good of the cause" is supposed to
justify them, and it may not be unjust to add,-the desire to make people
talk about them is not altogether a factor without influence. Just imagine
the temptation in Vanity Fair of an * -Ie ,the guest of princes and em-
perors, and having the great honour of a recommendation from the first of
living Englishmen-Mr. * * ! But it is only fair to Mr. C. to say that
he holds this justification, he says, in great abomination. Asfor the selection
of colours being blue and red, and turning out so, it seems to me quite
natural, and it may not be without significance that the white writing with
chalk we asked for never came. Besides, there is nothing in the matter itself
which may not have been written beforehand, indeed it was not what we had
wanted. Now, though I point out my own defects of observation, it is only
to show how little l·eally my testimony is worth except for points of co:i11irma-
tion; and I hope I shall be able to remedy them next time.
Somewhat different is the case of the double closed slate. I do not
remember it to have been washed; but there never was any writing on it
except a scratch occasionally, whenever I opened it, with the exception of the
last time. As I opened it myself I think I could easily have observed any
gradtuil precipitations. The reference to .. Brain as an organ of Mind" is not
altogether without significance. It is also evident that Mr. C. must have
minutely studied the time it takes for complete precipitation; or that the
whole preoipitation takes place simultaneously; or that the phenomenon
is undoubtedly genuine. The theory of mere writing without a chemical
and then bamboozling me would be really contemptible.
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1887.] JO'IL'¥"YWl of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 39
The reading of numbers was not a failure ; but it was not convincing.
•, Boorzu," however, was remarkable.
On the whole, I myself strongly incline more towards the genuineness of
the phenomena than the reverse ; but I cannot disguise it from myself that
that is largely due to a previous impression gathered from Mr. C.'s results
with others which were read out to me. If I get the same things next time
with my oum double-slate, and a pair of slates that haTe never left my
aight, I think I should be justified in being convinced of something
abnormal.
RepO'l"t qf MR. RUSSELL.
On Wednesday evening, September 15, I was present with my wife at
3 slate-writing .nce given by Mr. Clifford. We sat in the private sitting-
room of my friend Mr. R. Hodgson, at No.1, Fumival's Inn. Besides
Mr. Clifford, Mr. Hodgson, my wife and self, there were present Mr.
Hughes (another greatfriend of mine) and .. Mr. Padshah. I had never seen
either Mr. C. or Mr. P. before. We sat round an ordinary deal table. Mr.
P. was on Mr. C. 's right hand, I on his left. On the table were 3 or 4
single slates which Mr. P. had brought with him, and a double slate fitted
with lock and key belonging to Mr. Clifford.
As soon as we were seated at the table Mr. C. washed the double slate
with sponge and water, and then handed it round for inspection. As we ex-
pressed ourselves satisfied that it was perfectly clean, he placed a small piece
of ordinary crayon inside, locked it and gave it to Mr. Padshah to keep.
·Mr. P. having put it on his own chair behind his back, Mr. C. took one of
the single slates, washed it clean, put a small piece of crayon on it and placed
it under one comer of the table, holding it there with his right hand (thumb
in sight on the table, four fingers out of sight below), Mr. P. holding it- ill
the sa.me manner with his left hand. We then joined hands and talked,
waiting for the sound of writing. After some minutes Mr. C. broughtup the
slate, but there was nothing on it. He then put some small pieces of chalk
on one of the other slates lying on the table, covered it with another slate, and
said he would try to get some writing there if we would choose the colours
we would like it in. Mr. P. chose blue and my wife (at my suggestion) red.
Mr. C. then replaced the single slate under t.he comer of the table, holding
it as before, but again several minutes passed without any result. He then
asked my wife to change places with Mr. P., which she did, holding the slate
with her left hand as he had done. But again, after several minutes, there
was no writing. Then my wife and Mr. P. took their old places, Mr. C. once
more put the slate under the comer as before, and asked Mr. P. to think of
some number under 10, saying that he would try to get it written for him.
He then said aloud: "Please say whether we shall get anything to-night,"
soon after which Mr. P. declared he heard the sound of writing; whereupon
the slate was brought up, and the word "yes" and the number ,. 6" were
found upon it. Mr. P. said he had thought of 5, but explained that he made
his fives in such a curious way that they might easily be mistaken for sixes.
Mr. C. now said that a start having been made, more success might be looked
for, so the experiment was repeated, the slate being brought up at intervals
of from 5 to 10 minutes. The first time it had the letters BOORZ upon it,
Digitized by Google
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Jan., 1881.
which Mr. P. explained were the first five letters of his Christian name which
was in Persian written BOORZU. Neither Mr. Hodgson, Mr. Hughes, my
wife, nor myself had ever heard of this name before, but I did not quite
understand whether Mr. C. had or had not heard it from Mr. P. before the
sitting began.
Next time there was the single word " Wait," and a little later the words
"Try Chalks." We accordingly concentrated our attention on the two
slates with the chalks between them, which had been left lying on the table.
* * * * *
J. RUSSELL.
Report of MRS. RUSSELL.
I was present with my husband at a s~ance given by Mr. Clifford to Mr.
Padshah at Mr. Hodgson's rooms in Furnival'slnn, on Wednesday night, the
15th inst.
There were six of us present. We sat round a small deal table, which had
a drawer at each end. The one my end was empty. I did not examine the
other. Two lamps were in the room, and four candles, one of which was on
the table. Mr. Padshah sat next to Mr. Clifford and I next to Mr. Padshah.
He began by cleaning the inside of a locked slate given him by Mr. Clifford,
who having chosen and put inside a small piece of chalk, desired Mr.
Padshah to lock the slate and keep it in his possession. Mr. Padshah
locked it and put it behind him in the chair he was sitting in, and the key in
his pocket. l\Ir. Clifford then took a small ordinary slate, and a small piece of
slate pencil with no points, asking Mr. Padshah to first clean the slate him·
self on both sides. This being done they both held the slate under the edge
of the table withr,the fingers on the slate and the thumbs on the edge of the
table. We then all Joined hands, and sat talking for some time. Once or
twice Mr. Clifford took out the slate to examine, but found no writing. He
then asked me to change places with Mr. Padshah, and hold the slate, which
I did. Once or twice he took out the slate whilst I was holding it, and once
there was a zigzag pencil mark on it which was not there before, but no
writing. Mr. Padshah then took the slate again. We still went OB
waiting, and taking out the slate to look at. Twice, some white chalk
that Mr. Padshah had chosen was crushed when we looked at it. Mr. Clifford
then bent his head close to the table and asked in a loud voice, "Tell us if we
shall have any manifestations to-night or no; only one word Yes or No."
After waiting again Mr. Padshah said he heard the sound of writing. On
looking, "Yes" wasfound written on the slate. The letters were very uneven
and scrawling. Mr. Clifford then asked Mr. Padshah to think of a number,
and a figure 6 was given instead of a 5 which he had thought of. But Mr.
Padshah explained it by saying that he usually made those figures very much
alike, and it would be easy to confuse them. After waiting again the single
word " Wait" was found, and a little time afterwards " Try chalks" in the
same bad writing (so bad that we turned it first one way and then
another to make it out) with a very imperfect figure 8 that ?tIro Padshah
had been thinking of. Mr. Padshah himself discovered this last just as
Mr. Clifford was putting back the slate under the table. Nothing was
yet found in the locked slate. Mr. Clifford then put in several pieces of
Digitized by Google
Jan.,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 41
colored chalks between two slates which had been lying on the table all the
time, with one piece of pencil inside, and he and my husband placed their
hands on it. On again taking up the slate under the table, a curious word
appeared written on it which we could not read, written in much better
characters, but which appeared to me to be a foreign word.
On Mr. Padshah's looking at it, he exclaimed "Why ib is my own name
Boorzu, which I am hardly ever called by !" Noone at the table knew it was
Mr. Padshah's name, Mr. Clifford being positive that he had never heard it
before, and indeed neither of us had. Mr. Padshah then reminded Mr.
Clifford that he had asked him to ask his name before tea, which Mr. Clifford
said he had forgotten.
* * * * *
BESSIE RUSSELL.
I shall here give only two more reports.
Report of MR. A. S. BLOCK.
October 30, 1886.
DEAR MR. DA.VEY,
Few of the persons who have witnessed your extraordinaryperformances
can have done so with more impartial minds than I and my young son,
Allred, did. He, a youth of 16, perfectly ignorant of the whole subject of
Spiritualism, mediums, or psychical science, with eyes quick to discern every
movement of hand or body; I, calmly observing what I saiD without desiring
to theorise or account for the same, or the way in which it was accomplished.
Having heard of what you were doing I was curious to ,witness myself
your performances, and you kindly gratified me by giving me what I suppose
you would call a seance. To my own disappointment, and I fear to your own
inconvenience and perhaps greater strain of mind in consequence, I had but
half-an-hour with yon, having to catch my last train home.
You, my son, and I having adjourned to the library, sat down at a small
ordinary table with folding flaps, when you produced several slates and a small
folding slate with hinges and patent lock. Giving me the latter you asked
me to thoroughly sponge and wipe it, and placing a very small piece of pencil
between the two slates, I locked them and gave the key to my son, and
placed the slate in my right hand pocket, being the side away from you. You
then handed me an ordinary slate which you requested me also to well sponge
and wipe and put a mark in the corner of each side, which I did. Then,
putting a amall piece of pencil in the middle of the slate you placed it-
or slid it--1.t.nder the corner of the extended flap of the table, placing the
fingers of your right hand under it, and your thumb on the upper side
of the table, and your left hand 011 the table; I placing the fingers of
my left hand next and touching yours under the slate, and thumb on
the table, and with my right hand holding the left hand of my son. In
a few seconds you said, "Will you ask a question 1" when I asked,
" What shall I be doing this time to-morrow night 1" In about 3 or
4 minutes a slight scratching was to be heard, and you slid the slate
from under the table, and only a mark of an illegible word was to be
seen. The slate was again sponged and wiped by me, and again replaced by
Digitized by Google
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1881.
you in the same position as before-when you, either as part of the per-
formance or in fun, evinced some impatience and demanded an answer to my
question, and in a few minutes scratching was again heard, and on with-
drawing the slate from under the table, the word "Reading" very legibly
written, was on the slate.
You then took two slates which yon handed to me to sponge and wipe
as before, which I did, and placing 3 or 4 small pieces of coloured chalk, which
you placed between the 2 slates, which were placed on the top of the table,
you asked my son to take a book from the bookcase, to think of a page
without letting you know either the book or the page thought of, and keep
the book in his possession. Then asking him in what coloured chalk the
writing should appear-he desired it should be in red-you placed both
your hands firmly on the upper slate; I placed both mine, and my son did
the same, all of us pressing on the slates firmly.
Waiting a few minutes, you again manifested impatience and excitement
at the little delay, when we soon after distinctly heard a scratching between
the slates, which when looked at, the upper slate was found covered with
writing, in red chalk as desired. The writing was apparently an extract of
some kind, but unfortunately the opportunity of testing its accul'lWY was lost
as my son omitted to think of a page.
Although the time at our disposal wu but a few minutes-a quarter of an
hourat most-you kindly performed another t,rick, which was writing between
the locked slates. As I have said, these were handed to me by you at the
commencement of our sitting, were sponged and wiped by me, a piece of
pencil placed between the two slates-locked by me, and key handed by me
to my son and the slates placed in my pocket, so that it was manifest you
never had any touch or handling of these locked-up slates. Asking me to
unlock them I did so and found them in the same condition as when I placed
them in my pocket. I, however, again wiped them with the sponge-you
replaced the small piece of pencil, I locked them together again, handing the
key, to my son, and handing you the slates thus locked. 'ntese you placed
on the top corner of the table, placing both your hands upon them-I and my
son doing the same. In about 3 minutes, at most, you began to press
energetically upon the slates, when we heard very distinctly a slight
scratching between them. You called my attention to the sound, lifting your
hands, called my observation to the fact that when you did so the sound
stopped,-being again audible when you replaced your hands. In a few
seconds taking away your hands, you asked me to unlock the slates, which I
did and there saw writing in a good flowing hand-not in your style I
observed, on the whole of the upper, and on part of the lower slate. I read
the first few lines, which were that it was hoped I had enjoyed the
entertainment..
I much regret my hurried departure.
In the above memorandum, I have ,repeated I believe faithfully what
I saw.
Yours faithfully,
ALFRED S. BLOCK.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 43
After receiving Mr. Block's report I asked him the following
questions :-
1. Kindly say on which side the writing appeared when the slate was
held against the table, viz., was it on the lower side where my fingers were
or upon the upper side nearest the table; also when you grasped the slate
with me against the table do you remember if you held it firmly or not 1
2. Did I endeavour to distract your attention from the slates 1
3. To the best of your belief were the slates devoid of writing when you
examined and marked them, and did either .A)fred or yourself observe the
slightest opportunity for my writing (In them by ordinary natural means 1
Mr. Block replied on November 6th, 1886, as follows :-
1. The writing was on the side of the slate nearest the table, and as you
held the slate and I also held it very tightly against the under side of the
table flap, it appeared to me to be impossible for you to have touched the
pencil or that side of the late on which the writing appeared.
2. You certainly did not appear to endeavour to distract my attention
from the slate-quite the contrary.
3. To the best of my belief and as far as the evidence ofmy own and
Alfred's eyes could be relied upon the slates were all perfectly devoid of
writing or marking before the performance, in addition to which as I have
said I well sponged and wiped the slates myself and marked them before you
received them from me.
I may also state that neither Alfred or I observed the slightest;
opportunity for your writing on them by ordinary natural means.
A. S. BLOCK.
Report of MR. B. J. TEN BRttGGENKATE.
N O1HJrrWer 30th, 1886.
It was my good fortune to witness last night some of the most interesting
feats of what appeared to be conjuring that I have ever seen. I had
previously had several conversations with Mr. Davey upon the subject of
Spiritualism and slate-writing, and last evening when alone with·him at his
house he volunteered to give me a seance.
The room was a well lighted library, the table at which we sat was an
ordinary somewhat old-fashioned Pembroke table, and the slates used were
of the common school type, as well as one small folding slate fitted with
hinges and a Chatwood lock and key.
Mr. Davey gave me the locked slate and asked me to examine it carefully,
which I did and failed to find any trick or anything of the kind about it. The
" medium" then asked me to write a question upon the slate, to place a
small piece of pencil between the tw.o, to lock it up and put both slate and key
in my pocket. I did this in Mr. Davey's absence, he having been called away
for a moment. Mr. Davey then took one of the ordinary slates, and placing
a splinter of pencil upon it we both held it close under the table, and after a
lapse of a few minutes got some writing upon it, the writing I remarked at the
time being in an opposite direction to Mr. Davey. Mr. Davey then returned
to the locked slate, which had been inmypocket all the time, and upon placing
Digitized by Google
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
this slate upon the table, very faint scratching was heard, and a complete
and full answer to my question was returned. What was to me most ex-
traordinary was, that Mr. Davey did not know what question I had asked,
and yet the answer was definite and complete.
The next performance was even more wonderful. I took two common
slates, thoroughly cleaned them, and placed some pieces of red chalk between
them, and we kept our hands firmly upon them; in a short time faint
scratching was heard and upon lifting the top slate I found it to be covered
with writing written in a diagonal direction across the slate, the writing again
appearing in an opposite direction to Mr. Davey, i.e., as we sat opposite one
another it appeared as if I had written it.
The last experiment was only partially successful. Mr. Davey asked me
to choose a book from the shelves, unknown to him, and to sit upon it in
order that it should be invisible to him-then to write a number upon a
slate; I wrote-"fi~ "-then to think of a number ; I thought of "8e11/m."
The locked slate was again put upon the table, scratching was heard, and
upon opening it I found a verse from page 8 line 4 of the book I had
chosen, written distinctly upon the slate. I wish it to be observed that I
did not fix my mind attentively upon the number "seven" I had thought of
-my att.entioll being called off by some remarks of Mr. Davey; also that
Mr. Davey did not know the book I had chosen, so that I quite fail to see
how he could produce any writing from the book. This ended the seance,
and I am at a loss to conceive how the writing can possibly come upon the
slate. There was not a chance of Mr. Davey being able to get at the slates
during the performance. When I placed the two open slates one upon
another with the red chalk between them, I made the remark that if writing
was produced upon either of them I should be ready to believe anything-
for they were covered with my hand directly they were on tlle top of each
other and were never moved until writing appeared.
B. J. TEN BRUGGENXATE.
AUTOMATIC WRITING.
In reply to inquiries, the following communications have been
received from M. Aksakof, with respect to the account of "Automatic
Writing," printed in the JO'IJII"'1I,Q,l for September (p. 404). A few
slight changes in expression have been made, in accordance with
M. Aksakofs request.
St. Petersburg, Nevsky Prospect, 6.
October, 1886.
I shall give you with pleasure all the information you may require
concerning the case of automatic writing published in the JOWI"'IwJ, of the
Society for Psychical Research, September, 1886, because I consider this case
as one of the best, and as positively proving the poBBibility of receiving
through automatic writing information unknown to the sitters.
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journcil of Society for P8ychical Research. 45
1. In the first place, I must remark that the reference to the P&yChiScM
Studien, as given in the Journal, is not correct; the case was published in
Psychische Studien in 1885, p. 49 (and not in 1884, p. 149).if.
2. The seance was held the 10-22 February, 1882, in my own apartment.
The dates given in my joumal-1860-1861-were, for certain reasons,
fictitious.
3. You ask, "Can we be sure that the mediums, requested to repeat the
sentence, did not remember the letters 1" I think they could not, because
the letters were dictated to me with the usual indifference, quite
automatically. Generally, when there is a meaning in the first letters, the
spelled words can be easily remembered; if not, you immediately lose the
connection. Try yourself, after dictating 12 letters at random, to repeat
them, and you will see the difficulty. But you will have the advantage of
being able to direct special attention to the letters, knowing that you are
about to repeat them; in the case in question, the mediums did not know
that they would have to repeat the letters, and had no reason therefore to
give any particular attention to them; this is an important point. Take also
into consideration the fact that I did not request the sentence to be repeated
immediately after it was dictated to me, but after an exchange of questions
and answers with the invisible or supposed interlocutor; these answers, as I
see in my notes, consist of 172 letters; this was quite enough to obliterate
the impression of the 12 nonsensical letters. Finally, when the words were
said to be Hebrew, I asked that they should be repeated not with the French,
but with the Russian alphabet, and to do this required a repetition not of the
flame lettera, but of the same BOUnds. .
4. You have omitted an important t particular: after this repetition I
requested the first word (in the German translation erroneously rendered:
"the last word") to be given, and it was immediately spelled: emek; this
answer presupposes in my unconscious self a conscious knowledge of the
meaning of the two words. Now, as the gist of the test resides in the
justification of the supposition that these two words were unconsciously
impressed in my brain, I beg to submit for consideration the following
points:-
(a) My reading of the Hebrew was auto-didactic deciphering, not
knowledge; the reading of the Hebrew is not easy, because the pro-
nunciation of the words is indicated not by vowels, but by small points
and signs put round the letters ; hence, for this case, it would not have been
enough to receive an impression of the letters; an exact reading of them-
a careful deciphering-would also have been required; because, the same letters
remaining, their pronunciation might easily have been erroneously
impressed; for example, the first word, emek, consists, in Hebrew, only of
three letters, which admit of various pronunciations: amek, amok, amak,
omek-changing the signification of the three letters forming a root.
* The date which I gave was that of the number of Psychi8/"he Studien, from
which I took the first paragraph of my abstract. The account of the seance in
which the Hebrew words were given, appeared, as M. Aksakof states, in
February, 1885.
t It had not struck me that. the repetition of the first werd was important,
and M. Akaakof did not mention it when he read my translation in MS.
Digitized by Google
46 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1887.
(b) The reading in Latin letters (emek habaccha) is never ghoen in the
editions of the Hebrew Bible or in Hebrew dictionaries; at least, I have
not seen such a reading; so that the more easily produced impression of
these two words in Latin letters could not have taken place.
(e) Nevertheless, let us suppose that by some chance the said letters and
their reading had been unconsciously impressed on my brain; whence comes
the knowledge of their meaning f This knowledge could have been gained
only with the help of dictionaries or translations, ioe., only by the study of
the unique place in the Old Testament-the 84th Psalm-where the said
expression is found. I positively deny having ever made this study or
acquired this knowledge, because my deciphering of the Hebrew Bible
30 years ago was confined to the first chapter of Genesis and the first 10
Psalms-as I can prove by my notes at the time.
5. As to Cardoso's name, you ask: "What evidence is there that you or
one of the mediums might not have seen it yourselves in Didot's Biographie,
which you. consulted at the conclusion of the seance 1 Was not the
Biographie as accessible before as after the seance 1" The Biographie of
46 volumes is placed in a cupboard, containin« books only for exceptional
reference, relegated to an antechamber (entry) and always locked. Till
these seances I never consulted this biography, as my occupations do
not; require its special use, the more so that for ordinary information
I have in my cabinet, on a shelf, the Biography of the Engli$/t
Cyclopredia, in 6 vols. 4to. Before the Cardoso case, I consulted the
French Biographie only twice, also for communications that we
received some time before, as reported in Psyehische Studien, 1884, pp. 158
and 566. The names searched for were: Aper, Poreius Cato, Galltll,
Diocletianus. On the back of each volume is printed the first and the last
name it contains; thus, on the volume w4ere I found Cardoso, was printed:
"Cabacius-Caselles," consequently it was not touched on the two first
occasions, and it was myself who took the neceBBary volumes from the
cupboard.-Nevertheless, let us suppose~ that by some chance, when opening
this particular volume, only for a moment, one of us received the impression
of Cardoso's name; that will not cover the difficulty, because particulars are
given: nationality, profession, celebrity, religion. In the communication
he is called directly "a Jewish doctor"; not so in the Biographie, where
we find in the middle of the article the following phrase: "Ce qu'il y eut de
vrniment particulier daIl,B la vie de ce savant, c'est qu'il abandonna 1&
religion chretienne, dans laquelle il avait eM eleve, pour entrer dans Ie sein
du judai"sme, dont il devini un fervent apotre." For all these particulars a
reading of the whole article, not a glance at it, was necessary, the more so
that the text of the Biographie is printed with small type. But, as I said.
the volume was not even touched.
6. There still remains for explanation what appears toO me to be the
greatest difficulty of all, namely, the correlation (a plausible one) between
the Hebrew saying and Cardoso-between two supposed uncollscious
impressions, one originating from my brain, the other from the medium's.
For my unconscious self the reference of the Hebrew saying to Cardoso was
a logical impo8S'ibility, because if I had already received and retained the
impression of the Hebrew sentence, of its reading and meaning, I would
have also, unavoidably, received and retained the impression of its being
referred to its veritable source, which was in my hands, and not to a certain
Portuguese physician, whose name I had never heard. Hence, if one of us mmt
be regarded as the originator of the name, it must be one of the mediums.
for whom, vice versa, the Hebrew saying was a positive impossibility. ARd
here comes the remarkable thing that, althou~h the "motto" has not yet
been found (and perhaps never may be found) in the works of Cardoso. the
reasonabZen6IIB of attributing it to Cardoso i, pr011/ltl., because he turned OU'
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 47
to be a man profoundly versed in Hebrew, so fond of it that he finally
embraced the Hebrew religion, and his philosophical works-as I have seen
-are full of Hebrew citations. And so, if we do not admit an extraneous
source of knowledge, we must say that a supposed latent unconscious
impression of a consciously unknown Hebrew saying, was suddenly evoked
in my brain by a medium, sitting apart, when I was busy in writing down
his automatic dictations in the R1tssian language; and the evoking of this
impression in me, reacting mentally on the medium for explanation, evoked
in him, suddenly, also a latent unconscious impression of a consciously
unknown name, fitting with the unknown saying. Is that not too much 1
7. The account published in Psychische St1!dien was written from full notes
made by me at the time and which I have now in my hands.
8. We could arrive at no conclusion as to the identity of the com-
municating intelligence; he would never give his name, and there was'no
reason to attribute the communication to Cardoso himself. The intelligence,
when evoked by me afterwards, deprecated having any knowledge of Hebrew,
aaying it was only a reminiscence.
The testimony of my sister-in-law-Mrs. Wiesler, and my step-son-
Sergius Manouhinn, is appended to this letter. I can vouch that Pro-
fessor Boutlerof, who was present, would have signed it also;-unfortunately,
it is now beyond his power to do so.* I know that he considered this
case as one absolutely proving an extraneous source of knowledge. He
took no part in the seance, but sat at a distance, listening to the philo-
sophic controversy with our strange interlocutor, whose replies were always
full of wit and sarcasm. Once he dictated through the same mediums a
whole phrase in Italian, which was found to be perfectly correct.
A. AKSAKOF.
We the undersigned herewith testify that the record of the seance of the
10-22 February, 1882. allgiven by M. Aksakof in the Psychische Stttdien, 1885,
pp. 49-54, is perfectly correct. We were alone at the table, holding our right
hands on the planchette. Weare both completely ignorant of the Hebrew,
never heard of Cardoso, never had any access t.o the biographic dictionary
in question, and neyer perused any of its volumes; on some occasions the
necessary volumes were consulted by M. Aksakof himself.
13t October, 188ft
St. Petersburg.
ANAST.ASIE WIESLER.
SERGIUS MANOUHINlf.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Ed'itor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-The letter of "M. B." ill the Journal, for November opens up a.
question which I venture to think is of the utmost importance in relation to
the investigation in which our Society is engaged. There can be no doubt
that our inquiry is beset with many difficulties, and possibly dangers, in
consequence of our ignorance of the comparatively unknown land upon which
we a.re seeking to gain a fOOtllOld. And so far as any experiments in the
different branches of our work might be reasonably supposed to subject the
* The death of Professor Boutlerof, one of the Corresponding Members of
our Society, was recorded in the Journal for November, p.442.
Digitized by Google
48 .Joornal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan.• 1887.
agent or percipient to the invasion of deteriorating influences, without any
corresponding moral advantsge such as the pervasion of improving
influences. I for one should urge that experiments involving this dan~er
ought to be avoided. But I do not think that we should be justified in makmg
the suppositions which" M. B." appears to fa\-our.
In the first place, I cannot find that the experiments in "te'.epathy,
automatic writing, &c.," to which" M. B." refers. "require the will of the
percipient to be, so to speak, annulled for the time. and the mind left blank."
so that it may be invaded by any influence whatever. So far is the will from
being annulled that it has probably been concentrated either upon perceiving,
in activity,-or receiving, in passivity, the impressions of-perceptions or
feelings experienced by some specific personality. This proceBB, I take it, is a
very different one from opening the mind to any influence whatever, as indeed
we might infer from the counterparts of such processes in ordinary human
experience. That it is so is suggested, moreover, even by" M. B.," who says
that recent experiments in hypnotic suggestion "seem to show that
• . • a sub-conscious resistance is almost invariably found to any practi-
cally undesirable suggestion made by the experiments, when the subject is a.
rational and self-controlled ptorson." A strenuous activity against debasing
influences may well consist with a strenuous passivity, if I may so speak, to
exalting influences. Certainly, as "H. B." says, " we should not think it
wise to allow ourselves to be mesmerised by persons of known bad character";
and no doubt the acquirement of a greater sensitiveneBB to what I may
vaguely teml supernormal influences of a purifying nature, may carry with
it the pOBBibilities of a deeper degradation. The counterpart of this again
we also find in ordinary human experience; and in reply to any objection on
this ground I should think it sufficient to profess my faith :
" Certain, if knowledge bring the sword,
That knowledge takes the sword away."
But, in the second place, possibly the special hypothesis to which
.. M. B." draws attention may be that in the cl&B8 of experiments referred
to, we lay o~elves open very little, if at all, to "higher" spirits,
but only or chiefly to those of a "lower" order. If so, I should say that
the only evidence I have myself seen for such a theory is not worth con-
sideration ; it depends upon the supposed deterioration of alleged
"Spiritualistic mediums," in consequence of the "spirit-influences" to
'Which they have been subjected. They have, it is asserted, become fraudu-
lent and vicious, after a career, as mediums, of honesty and purity; but
I think it probable, that in the majority at least of these cases, the supposed
" mediums" have been fraudulent from the beginning.
I agree, then, with "M. B." in thinking that "we should be wise to
put ourselves on the defensive," in the sense that we should not adopt the
mental attitude of being willing to surrender ourselves to any impulse that
may .. hap" to come. And this may be all the caution that .. M. B."
means to emphasise; though in truth we are far as yet, in my opinion, from
being "shipwrecked in the dark upon an unknown island, of which we
are ignorant whether it is desert or inhabited by friendly or hostile
tribes" ; rather do we
" float about a glimmering night, and watch
A full sea glazed with rnufHed moonli~ht swell
On some dark shore just seen that it IS rich."
I am, &c.,
RICHARD HODGSON.
Digitized by Google
