{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1magdalena_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Magdalena M NDE 5294","mylang":"de"}
          	        Magdalena M NDE 5294  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Magdalena M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2797 Magdalena M NDE 5294  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I started to walk, I told them I was feeling awful. Even though a doctor, a nurse and some relatives were helping me walk, I started to feel worse and I told them again. Then I just lost my strength.  All of a sudden, I felt a painful pressure in my chest.

Something very strong threw me backwards at great speed into a very dark tunnel. I felt very frightened but suddenly I was floating forwards inside the tunnel. I started to feel much better. I could make out a golden light at the end of the tunnel, like a beautiful sunset. I felt flighty, light and very happy, more peaceful than I ever had in my life.  As I was approaching the light, I could see something like several silhouettes waiting for me.  It was all peace and happiness, but suddenly I could not go forward any more. I felt like something was stopping me and then something was grabbing my hand. I thought of my baby and of my other two daughters.  

I returned as fast as I had left. I could see everybody helping in some way, injections and other things, and my husband was holding my hand really strongly and begging, 'Don't go, don't go!' I know that was what stopped me from going. I am happy about it, but I think death cannot be that bad if it is anything like what I experienced.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 de Enero de 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related. Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   It was the day after my third C-section and everything had gone wrong. They were making me walk, but I was feeling very weak. I think I fainted. They told me that I started to have convulsions, and as I returned, I heard that my blood pressure and my glucose were at 20.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I stopped and felt I could not go forward anymore.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It all happened very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     First, it was as if I was falling very fast and backwards, and then I was floating along inside it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I looked at them, but they were like essences, like silhouettes. They were waiting for me, and it all was happiness.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A beautiful warm, golden light, not white nor shining, but warm, like a sunset.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First I felt fear. I was scared. Then I felt peace, warmth, and happiness; only nice feelings.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Well, I have always believed, but now my faith is stronger.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Well, I have always believed, but now my faith is stronger.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I think there is something in the afterlife, and that we are here for a reason.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told it many times, mostly right after I experienced it. I told my mum and my sister, and a nurse, who were there with me. Some people have been really interested, some others did not make any comments, and there were even those who joked that the light not being white meant that I was going to go to hell!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel it as very real and I am glad I experienced it. I don't forget the details, I know I had convulsions when I fainted and I know that I immediately received medical attention, but I also know that what made me come back was my husband. The truth is that I would have gladly continued to the light.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel the same about it as if it had happened yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1magdalena_m_nde.html