{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1mabel_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Mabel G Probable NDE 4391","mylang":"de"}
          	        Mabel G Probable NDE 4391  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Mabel G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2183 Mabel G Probable NDE 4391  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In May, I entered the hospital. I was sixteen days overdue on delivery of my second child and as large as a woman carrying twins. Doctor Ralph said he would go to church (it was a Sunday) and when he returned he would induce labor. Because I was so large, tired and frightened, I went into the bathroom, closed the door, and prayed the Lord's Prayer. I prayed not for my life nor for my baby's life, but to not be so afraid. I prayed for God to be with me in the ordeal ahead. The doctor returned, induced labor, and the birth pains became so excruciating that there were loud crashing noises and cymbals inside my body and head. Then there was a loud scraping noise similar to a pipe being pulled from another tighter pipe. 

As unusual as it is, my soul left my body and I flew through space in a tunnel with lights streaking on each side (my soul left my feet and proceeded upward through my head and out). I flew thousands of miles per second and felt protected from evil and harm by the colorful lights. At the end of the tunnel was a light, which was Jesus' robe.  Suddenly, I was standing in the valley of the shadow of death with a small stream of water running at my feet.  On the other side, facing me was Jesus! His hands were held out to me; his face expressed love. His message to me (although His lips did not move) was 'I love you and forgive you your sins and I will wait with you until God decides whether you are to go home now or later.' I was so happy and at peace. God's will and mine were the same.

Then, I was back in my body without any sensation of traveling back. The doctor exclaimed, 'What a big baby boy - he weighs 11 pounds 1 1/2 ounces!' and then he said, 'She's come back to us.' He knew I'd been gone! What a miracle God performed that day! I'm so thankful for this experience. It has given me hope in Christ that through Him I can be blessed to be victorious over death, hell and the grave as well as this life's tribulations! PRAISE GOD! Jesus is alive and alive forever more!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'May  8, 1960'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  Gave birth to an 11 lb. 1 1/2 oz son  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was so large, tired and knew delivery of this baby would be difficult. I had previously given birth to an average size baby girl five years ago; I was frankly terrified of the birth to be.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was with Jesus.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was with Jesus.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was dark with colorful lights streaking on each side; the lights protected me from shadowy figures on both sides; some would have helped me if they had the opportunity; some would not.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Shadowy figures were on each side of the tunnel; some were good and some were evil.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was Jesus' robe.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In the valley of the shadow of death, mountains rose behind Jesus and a small  stream of water ran directly in front of His feet; If I had crossed over the  stream of water I would have been gone forever.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       How I Love Jesus! O How Awesome He Is! I was experiencing the peace that passeth understanding; wonderful peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that Jesus is alive and alive forever more; that He loves me and is with me.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     DEEPER FAITH.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     DEEPER FAITH.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   To love and help all you have an opportunity to do so.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams at night during sleep which told me my son's life was at risk when he was a policeman which turned out to be true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing Jesus!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most are very inspired.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first it was too precious to share; and I may have felt no one would believe me; now I know this experience has given me faith to sustain me in my worst moments of despair and depression.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       All we need is Jesus!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mabel_g_probable_nde.html