{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1madeleine_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Madeleine S NDE 174","mylang":"de"}
          	        Madeleine S NDE 174  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Madeleine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						616  Madeleine S NDE  174  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I inhaled the gas, as the nurse said I should, for a long while. A long time passed, and then the dentist increased the percentage of pure gas. I remember I had palpitations, felt horror; anxiety and that I couldn't move or adjust my vision. I felt sheer panic and remember I wanted the nurse and dentist to see from the look in my eyes that something was terribly wrong with me.


Then I heard a loud ringing sound, like bells, in my ears, which kept on getting louder, the sound continued, and I thought it sounded so awful. God, I have to ‘wake up’, I thought, because something terrible is going to happen -- high anxiety. Then I remember I was in a dark place that seemed to be spinning around me, but after a while, I noticed it was me that was 'drawn' forward at high speed towards a small light. I stopped there and felt rather sad because I thought I had really died, and I grieved the loss of my daughter, that I wouldn't be able to see her any more (she was seven years old at the time).


I heard two different female voices talking to me. I don't remember everything they said, but it was a lot, and the sound came from behind me. I wanted to turn around, but couldn't. They said, ‘Madeleine, the purpose of your life is, among other things, to try to have as much fun as possible, forget the sad things that happened and laugh and smile as much as you possibly can. Everything is going to be all right for you. Humor is very important,’ the two women said.


I remember having a kind of sinking feeling in my stomach all the time, and it went on when I was drawn out of my body and 'ended up' in a corner of the room. From there I watched the other two who were working with me. In a second or so I was beside the right cheek of the dentist, and I could feel his beard brushing against my left cheek. It was a shocking experience to be so close to him without him seeing or feeling my presence.


I heard them talking to one another, saying that I had stopped breathing.  He said he would do heart massage, which he proceeded to do. I saw that all color drained from my face 'down below in the chair', and I got very scared. Then these bells came back in my ears and I felt the sinking feeling in my stomach even stronger. All at once, I was lying in the chair with the dentist hanging over me with a sweaty face. I started crying hysterically when I told them what happened to me. They were pretty calm about it and comforted me. He said he noticed that I was 'gone' for a while and that it can happen if the percentage of pure gas is wrong, he said he had it happen before. I went to a psychologist directly afterwards and talked about this experience.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1996

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     They gave me gas when I was getting my teeth fixed. The gas amount was not correctly administered, and as a result I was exposed to a wrong dosage of gas for a long time.   The dentist pounded on my chest pretty hard several times.The dentist said afterwards that I stopped breathing completely, and because of it he felt an urgent need to wake me up rather abruptly, by pounding on my chest and shaking me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In a purely physical sense I felt small, as if it was only my head that 'went' up to Stefan, the dentist. I couldn't see my body, the feeling was so different from everything else, so it's a bit difficult to find the right words.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was both frightened and shocked, but felt totally alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was a feeling like being deep down in a cavern or something similar, I felt it distinctly all the time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Bells ringing louder and louder, a low buzzing sound when I felt the speed in going towards the small point of light.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A dark place, darkness all around me that I then saw was like a tunnel around me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't see them, I just heard them. There were two different female voices talking to me. I didn't recognize the voices. They sounded a bit 'metallic'.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Just a small speck of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Panic, anxiety, fear, surprise, strong grief (separation anxiety).

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I got some knowledge as to what my life was supposed to be about, among other things that humor was important to me. I'm the humorous kind of person; I have always liked humor and crazy pranks, so it might seem somewhat strange that they gave me such an order, because I already had a lot of humor in my life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     I felt that these two 'women' knew that everything would be all right for me in the future.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I´ve always believed there was a purpose to my life, a higher purpose. Had among other things spontaneous memories from a life in Ireland before the experience.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I wanted to live differently in regard to other people and their lives and destinies. Helping others is important to me, the most important thing of all. A feeling that the soul is immortal.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Sometimes dreams that come true, I see energy around people and plants very clearly, hear a voice in my left ear sometimes 'talking' to me. Don't know who it is. Can spontaneously 'see' images around a person about their state of health among other things. Can see spirits at home and in other people's homes. My intuition became very strong afterwards.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was the anxiety, which I thought I was going to die, and that I couldn't move. The best was the parapsychological aftereffects. A deep understanding within, a kind of confirmation that there is something more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The few who know about it have never even for a second laughed, doubted my experience or ridiculed me in any way. I've been treated kindly.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not at this time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I thought your questions were really good as they were. Thank you for letting me share what happened to me at the Dental Clinic.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1madeleine_s_nde.html