{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1madison_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Madison T NDE 2455","mylang":"de"}
          	        Madison T NDE 2455  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Madison T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						743  Madison T NDE  2455  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

On my way back I was in the tunnel - now filled with a very thick fog. I was in a horizontal position as if swimming. Looking down I could see the earth twelve to fifteen feet below me as if in a Plexiglas tube. Then saw my car upside down, wheels spinning, stereo blasting. I entered the car and saw my body. I made a deal to come back and entered my body through the forehead didn't fit - last joint of fingers and last joint of toes as if I was glove that was too big. I exited through the forehead, looked at that body and thought, you made a deal - so in again I went. This time a perfect fit. Looking around I realized that I wasn't one with the body yet - couldn't remember how to get it to breathe, so totally not a part of it yet. Then everything was crystal clear as I have never seen before - sharp vivid lines and colors - I got out of car. Next thing I remembered was going up to a phone booth and a man was there. I asked for a ride, told him I'd been in a wreck - he just happened to be calling it in and had stopped. He asked me who else was in the car. I told him only myself - he had tried to get me out and thought I was dead. I still question, how did I get to a phone booth at the same time the man in a car did. I have no memory from the time exiting my car and arriving at the phone booth. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	May 1981   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  concussion  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening rolled my car concussion  I had rolled my car off the road.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always aware.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were brighter sharper clearer, lines defined and extremely sharp.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was about the size of a small room very dark with a light toward the end. I was standing upright being propelled toward the light having a telepathic conversation with an entity near the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See above.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None except looking at my body from outside I realized it a mere earthly vessel, organic, separate totally from me, no emotion of any kind felt toward it, could have been a chair and destroyed before me and I would not have felt a thing towards it.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   foursquare  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I realize that we are eternal beings of light and energy here in organic vessels for a time being to enjoy earthly pleasures and experience.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   total spiritualist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I realize that we are eternal beings of light and energy here in organic vessels for a time being to enjoy earthly pleasures and experience.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Years after; the gift of knowing and of unknown knowledge; finding things for others; readings - I receive messages for whom ever I am reading.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above. Also a slight gift of healing - I refer to my gifts as baby gifts, not sure how to access them all the time - and became a light worker.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Wrote a letter to a friend about it three days later then waited sixteen years.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't remember it till three days later.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I share this with everyone and am considering a book on gifts brought back from the other side.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1madison_t_nde.html