{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1madhavi_nde.html","mytitle":"Madhavi NDE-Like 864","mylang":"de"}
          	        Madhavi NDE-Like 864  			  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Madhavi NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						345  Madhavi NDE-Like  864  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

This was around March in 1987.  My sister and I were chatting at the doorsteps.  My sister was tickling me from behind, I meant to hit her with my elbow, but I hit on the edge of the wooden platform of the door.  What I experienced was that I was a tiny object of myself traveling with very high speed in dark space with a light where I could see the hollow dark space that I was traveling in.  I heard the vibration sound of the air when I traveled in the hollow space.  I was in this state for about ten to fifteen minutes.


But after the fifteen minutes, I heard my mother and sister trying to wake me up by spraying water on my face, what they told me was, my body was falling down from the sitting position on the steps. Initially, my sister thought I was pretending as if I were falling down with pain.  Whatever my sister and my mother were trying to do and talk to me, I could not hear anything.


But after that event, I never paid attention to what has happened to me until yesterday.  I was with a group of about fifteen people discussing the Upanishad.  One of the main persons, who was giving a lecture on the Upanishad, said we are only a material with some physical form.  In order to reach God, we should see ourselves as out of the physical form.  As I was hearing this talk, I remembered my experience. I thought I will share my experience with my husband, so I went home and discussed it with him.  I never told him during my eleven years of marriage with him, because I was so busy with my studies, my children and my job, I never thought of paying attention to the death experience that I had almost about seventeen years back.


My husband and me discussed it for an hour, and I was telling him that some of the gurus have a soul that departs from their body.  So what I was thinking at the time when these books were written there was no scientific knowledge of the human body.  From the recent studies of what is needed to build a human body, proteins and all other minerals etc. are required. They found it very hard to build proteins; even using thousands of computers they found it is impossible to generate those proteins.


So with this little bit of scientific knowledge that I gained, I am analyzing my death experience as being, that we have some type of particles (that is what is called soul) that operate our brain functionality which is traveling in our body. Once we reach the death state, those particles (soul) are the ones, which come out of our body and start traveling again in the space, until it again comes into some body form.  So I think there is life after death.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March 1987

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Playing with my sister at the door steps.   Hit with my elbow on a sharp edge.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As a small object, traveling in a dark hollow space with huge vibration noise of the air.  I do not know how to describe the sounds I heard. I never heard them in my real life experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      No consciousness of my sister and mother talking to me and trying me to wake from my death state.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It is like a universe with all dark empty space.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A hollow dark tunnel, where I could see the path in front of me and all around pitch dark.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A very dim light that only showing me the path in the dark space.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only yesterday with a small group and my husband.  I never discussed it with anyone all these seventeen years, I did not focus on this issue, I did not apply attention all these years to what I had experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would like to find other people's experiences and get more knowledge.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1madhavi_nde.html