{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1magda_nde.html","mytitle":"Magda NDE 6454","mylang":"de"}
          	        Magda NDE 6454  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Magda NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3211 Magda NDE 6454  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I arrived at the hospital, bleeding. When they found out it was a miscarriage, they left me in the emergency room lying on a bed, waiting for the second doctor for a ‘scraping.’ [See Dilation and curettage]

Although I was hemorrhaging severely and profusely, continuously losing blood due to the lost pregnancy, they left the room without seeming to notice it. When the second doctor arrived and noticed my condition, he told all the personnel that if I died, they were responsible. I needed a transfusion. I had lost so much blood that they elevated my feet so that the blood, which remained in my body, would go to my vital organs. The bed was all bloody; I had the chills and was sweating profusely at the same time. I couldn't hear well, I couldn't speak, and I was confused. I lost consciousness various times. 

Suddenly they wheeled me to another room where they yelled at me. They were informing me that I needed blood ‘right now because you are dying.’ They were referring to the fact that there was no time to call my relatives to donate blood. My condition was so serious that I went into shock and everything went dark. I felt like I was falling into an incredible darkness and I started hearing noises. It seemed to me as if the noises were coming from me being moved violently. I was very scared and worried because at that time I had my four children to care for at home. I have always been a person of strong character and I’m not easily intimidated. But this time I was scared. I knew that I was dying and I thought my life was over, and so quickly, too. I seemed to be trying to resist dying but what was going on was too strong and I had no control over it. 

Meanwhile, between the noise and the movements of my body I had the feeling that I was now traveling side-by-side with other beings. I entered another place, which I recognized as another dimension. I seemed to be traveling at the speed of light. My body felt weightless. I was traveling along in a lying-down position, as if reclining on a lounge chair, with my feet out in front of me. Everything shook because of the force created by the speed that my body (or energy) was traveling. I could see other bodies or souls (or energies) traveling next to mine at the same speed. Some were coming and others were going. I was scared I was going to crash into one of those souls, or energies. 

Suddenly the noise and the harsh movements stopped, and my fear went away. I now travelled along more smoothly. After I passed through ‘my’ dimension, I went into an infinite space. It was incredible! In the endless darkness, I saw stars and also something like planets and many other things. I no longer felt fear or pain, either physical or emotional. There was nothing bad at all. While all this was happening, I was ‘speaking’ (in my mind), asking questions, and for some reason I was getting answers.  

I started remembering many things from my life: my family, past situations and recent events, too. It seemed that lots of things I had forgotten about came to my mind all at once, while at the same time, I was feeling peace, serenity, and complete well-being. I felt that nothing was evil and nothing would do me any harm. I kept traveling directly toward a point where a light was emanating from what seemed to be a window or some kind of hole; I’m not sure what it was. When I got closer, I entered through something round. It wasn't a tunnel. Perhaps it was a door. I do know there was a building with a waiting room, or some kind of receiving area, that I went into. There was a white light on the ceiling and I was seated on something like a metal bench. In front of me, there was a tall, white counter like a receptionist desk. Behind it, there was a man with black hair, but he didn't look at me, even though he seemed to know I was there. A woman passed by holding a book. I thought she was a nurse, but she wasn't. She didn't look at me, either. I continued speaking inside my mind and kept getting answers. 

I looked around and saw two doors, one to the left and one to the right. I knew that if I were going to stay there, I would be using the door on the right: that was the door where they were waiting for me. Nothing else was going on, no one was attending to me, and so I kept on thinking and getting answers.  I started thinking that my family would probably know by now that I was dead and that they would be suffering. I thought/ spoke again saying how guilty I felt for wanting to stay here but how unfair it would be for my children. 

Suddenly, and with the same force as before, but this time going head first, I left that area at the speed of light and traveled on until arriving at what I now called ‘limbo’: between dimensions. All that body movement began again, accompanied by those noises that sounded like an out-of-control train. At last, I arrived at another place. The pain returned, and my body started weighing me down. For a moment, I thought I was in hell because of the pain and desperation I felt. I saw strange looking beings. Later I realized that they looked strange to me because my vision had not readjusted to the earth yet.  

I hadn't realized I was back on the earth and that those ‘strange’ beings were just people trying to talk to me. I couldn't see anything much, just bolts of energy, and I couldn't hear normal voices, either. The voice that had been answering me inside said that this was normal. At that point, I realized that the voice was coming from the other place, and that speech, hearing and sight were in a different ‘format’ here from what it was ‘there.’ 

It was a half-hour to forty minutes before I could see, hear, and speak clearly again. I did feel extremely sad about returning. When I left the hospital, I was still tired, being in a seriously anemic condition due to the bleeding.  I had already started to see life differently.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Septiembre 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Miscarriage.  Severe loss of blood due to hemorrhaging from the miscarriage. At first, the doctors didn't notice the blood loss. I was losing consciousness at various times, going into shock, and having to put my feet up so that the blood would go to my vital organs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so alert about everything. The moment they I said that I was dying, and then I left this dimension, it was like my senses were very alert. I spoke mentally and observed everything in great detail, even though many times I didn't understand much of what was happening.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When traveling from one place to the other. I felt eager to take in everything, maybe because of the anguish I was feeling at that time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. It was like everything was happening together, no hour, no day, and no date. It was all like in the present moment, and I found that very interesting!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was incredible that I could see so well: but that was in the other dimension. When returned and I opened my eyes, I could only see bolts of light and the forms of humans. Since I didn't hear well, it also was hard to tell what they were saying.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was less important. When you are communicating in your mind without words, you don't need to hear words with your ears. When I woke up it was like in a different tune, like a different sound or different frequency.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Behind the door on the right, I felt the presence of my grandma and my aunt. They were in a place of light.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don’t believe that it was a tunnel even though it was round. What I could see was a great infinite space without end. Then I saw a door with a round entrance leading to something like a small tunnel or passage.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I know that place was outside of this earth and I understood who was answering my questions and that it was like in another dimension. I was no longer here. I had travelled through space, upward, passing planets, and had gone straight ahead without stopping, as if in a space ship. My body was energy, but that didn't concern me. I was high up in the stars in some unknown place.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, I felt anxiety and a terrible fear of the unknown: fear of that which we call ‘death.’  I felt a clash of emotions.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Not exactly, but as I remember now, I am crying. It was peace; it was serenity. I felt in harmony. I saw from where we came and to where we go. Earthquakes are created. Reality is created. We are part of a whole: and in that place, which is our home, breathes infinite love.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I arrived at the room where they weren't waiting for me (I knew that because they didn't speak to me or attend to me.) Things changed when I started thinking in my mind that I would like to stay because of the incredible feeling of well-being I had, but that I would feel guilty about leaving my children, because I knew they needed me. That's when I suddenly left there, traveling at the same speed at which I had come, and returned to my life on earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Catolica no practicante y no totalmente creyente de las cosas de la iglesia,no creo en el papa,l biblia es contradictoria y usualmente no hablo de religion creo en un ser supremo!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   No pertenezco a ninguna religion soy catolica bautizada pero no visito ninguna iglesia,mis creencias en otras vidas,en un ser de podero supremo,sea Dios,Jehova,quien sea y mi interes por conocer mas de otras vida, gentes con experiencias similares a las mias y todo lo relacionado hoy me interezan mucho mas

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     SE  crearon en mi dudas de lo que es el ser humano,el proposito en esta tierra de donde somos y a crer mas mas en este tipo de experiencia scuando escucho a otros me siento conectada de alguna forma

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that we have a purpose and that we are all equal.  I believe there is another existence and that we do return to our real home.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   It was not a voice exactly, but I was being given answers to questions that were coming up in my mind. I was not speaking. For me everything was mental. The other people I saw never spoke out-loud to me, either.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     solo se que desperte sintiendo que religion,mistisismo,espiritualismo y todo lo demas estan mas que relacionados es de la forma en que el ser humano expresa una misma cosa que desconoce pero en la que cree,entiendase otra vida  despues de la muerte seres

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Bueno creo que esto de por si es algo fuera de serie jamas pense pasar por algo asi y siempre he creido en algo superior alguien que dirije y esta al mando de todo un ser supremo pero acompaÃ±ado de muchos otros seres de poder no lo veo de un punto de vista religioso,pero si lo veo como un ser de luz que dirije todo

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I think that I woke up with more questions than I used to have. Trying to better understand who I am, where I came from, what is my purpose, and how to change so as to become a better person.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     digo incierto porque aunque despues de esta experiencia algo cambio en mis sentidos soy mas consciente mas en el ahora en el significado de quien somos y que hacemos aqui definitivamente creo que tenemos un proposito aqui

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Digo si porque de alguna manera tenia consciencia de que ya no estaba viva que habia pasado a otra dimension que aquello era eterno porque no habia tiempo,ni hora sabia que estaba en otra vida o a punto de comenzar otra vida

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     el ser humano debe usar el sentido comun en todo lo que hace llegando a entender que la resposibilidades de vivir es nuetra somos lo que consciente o inconscientemente queremos nuestra realidad es creada somos lo que creemos,y que necesitamos vivir con balance en todo lo que hacemos "Equilibrium" no se de donde me salio esta filosofia de vida creo que todo fue parte de la experiencia que tuve

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I only know that I woke up feeling that religion, mysticism, spiritualism, and all similar things are related. They are all different ways that human beings express the same things: things they sense but they don’t understand. We all believe in what I see as the same things, and we express those beliefs in various forms, whether they be religion, mysticism, or spirituality. Well, I believe that (I have always believed in something greater) someone who is in charge of everything, a supreme being, but accompanied by many other powerful beings. I don’t see it from a ‘religious’ point of view. What I see is a being of light, directing everything. I was conscious that I wasn’t alive, that I had passed into another dimension, into that which is eternal. I knew it was ‘eternity’ because there was no time. I knew that it was another life or a point where another life could begin.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my family and other close people. When I left the hospital and I talked to people about it, some of them cried. They believed I was telling the truth, because they knew that I don't invent things like this. My dad was very sick in 2005 and I spoke with him by phone. He was very afraid of dying and I felt his relief when I talked to him about what I'd been through and that everything was marvelous and there was no fear or pain. A few months later, he died.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I like to read. I read everything that helps improve me as a person or that expands my consciousness.  I had read about this topic and I had found it interesting.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. I am one of those people who like to learn and read about everything. I like to learn all I can to know myself. But religion has never been one of my strong interests. I don’t practice it or believe in many of the things that are taught by religions. I’m very neutral and very rational. I look for a purpose and an explanation behind everything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was incredible: well, I think so! For those who hear it is incredible, they should know that the fact that it would happen to someone like ME makes it even more incredible! It made me question what human beings are, such as: what is our purpose of this earth, and where did we come from?  I became able to believe more and more in this type of experience. When I hear others people talk, I feel connected in some way. Human beings should use common sense in everything we do. We need to come to understand that the responsibilities of life are ours. What we become is affected by what we want. We create our reality whether consciously or unconsciously. We are what we believe. We need to live with balance (equilibrium) in everything we do.  I don’t know where I came up with this philosophy of life. I think it was all part of the experience I had.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       When it asks if we ‘believe in God’ after we had the experience, it should give more choices, such as if we ‘believe in a supreme being that directs things,’ because that is what I believe in: a supreme being of light!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1magda_nde.html