{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3515","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n29_jun_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N29 June 1886","mylang":"de"}
Xo. XXIX.-VOL. II. J1:'NII:, 1886.
JOURNAL
01' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEltRCH.
OOlfTBlfTB.
Ifew HemberuDd AIIOCWH.. ••
)(ee&IDg of Council . • •• ••
AIuIoaDcemeDt of General Heetln, •• ••
~~'f:. b;'the iiterary Coaunlttee
8applemeDtary LlbftrJ cata\ope ..
PAG.
•. 281
•• 281
•• 282
•• 282
•• 3M
•• 336
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
HEWITt', FREDERIC W., M.B., 23, Somerset Street, Portman Square,
London, W.
lIoULTON, MRS. F. A. (of New York). 11, Ashley Place, London, S.W.
SISLEY, RICDARD, !\I.B., Park Row, Knightsbridgt", London, W.
ASSOCIATES.
CAPPER, MISS, Francis Grove, Wimbledon, S.W.
GROSVENOR, GEORGE Fox, M.D., 121, Ladbroke Grol"e, Notting Hill,
London, W.
lliRJORIBA.'fKB, LADY, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, :Northumber-
land.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a meeting of the Council, held on the 4th inst., lIr. Hensleigh
Wedgwood in the chair, the following other Members were present:-
Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, and
Frank Podmore.
The Minutes of the previous meeting were read, and signed as
correct.
Three new Members and three new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
Two volumes were on the table as presents to the Library from Mr.
J. Herbert Stack. A present was also reported fronl lIr. J. W.
a
Digitized by Google
282 Journal of Soci~t,ll /01' PS!lclzicnl Re8earch. [JuDe, 1886.
Hayes. The titles of these are gh"en in the Supplementary Library
Catalogue.
The cash account for the preceding month was presented in the
usual form.
The next meeting of the Council will be at 5 o'clock in the after-
noon of the day of the General l\Ieeting, and will be one of the four
special ones in accordance with a resolution of the Council.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
The next Gelleral Meeting of the Society will be held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mal~ S.W., on
Monday, the 5th of July, when Mr. C. C. Massey will read a paper 011
" The Possibilities of Mal-observation in relation to the Evidence for
the Phenomena of Spiritualism." The chair will be taken at 8.30 p.m.
lIR. EGLINTON.
Before laying before the readers of the Journal a collection of
evidence received from members of the Society about slate-writing
experiences with Mr. Eglinton, it seems desirable to recall two
incidents in his career which show that we must not assume any
disinclination on his part to pass off conjuring performances as occult
phenomena.
The following are extracts from a letter by Archdeacon Colley,
headed Sauce/or tlte (lander, which appeared in Tlte Jfedium and
Daybreak of November 1, 1878, p. 698, signed, "Member of Counc~
B.N.A.S." He wrote disapproving of the publicity given by Tlte
Spiritualist to the Williams-Rita exposure in Amsterdam, silence
having been maintained as to one where Mr. Eglinton was concerned :-
• • • • When, over two years ago, it fell to my unhappy lot to take
from the portmanteau of a certain medium • • . • urapery and false
beard, that I had reason then to suspect were worn, and afterwards had proof
that they were worn by the medium, conacious or unconscious, in" form
manifestation" • • • • we kept our counsel, as I think, wisely, and
I quietly, but with increased vigilance, pushed on my humble investigations,
and have had the largest reward, larger than any other Spiritualist has had,
from staying hasty judgment, and endeavouring with no slacknesa of obser-
vation, through much experience, to think charitably of what in the put
looked dubious pertainins:c to matters which neither I nor any other mortal
can comprehend. Moreover, had not my counsels prevailed with friends at
the time, and 011 the unhappy occasion referred to, tllO Movement would
have suffered disgrace ill the imprisonment of the medium in question, whOile
services have been ill such large demand by members of the B. N. A. S.
Digitized by Google
June, 1886.] Journal qf Sociei!l.ffFl' P'!lcltical Resca1·ck. 283
In a subsequent letter ill Tlu~ Medium and Daybreak, November 15.
18i8, p. 730, he says:-
Haying no purpose to serve in cloaking my individuality, you
are at liberty to print the name COLLEY, one not altogether unknowll, and
which never yet hll.8 been disallowed us a guarantee for the truth of state-
ments made and published.
. My argument was that if Eglinton were innocent, I could
not see how . could so ell.8ily judge Williams and Rita guilty.
For though, at the instance of the gentleman in whose house Eglinton WIl.8
a guest, and to prevent their seizure by the police, I, in view of the family
U8sembled, had taken the muslin and false beard from that medium's port-
manteau, I yet held condemnation in suspense, not knowing how they came
there.
I Mve only affirmed well-known facts, and regret that
(,thers made any public notice of them, in the interest of justice and im-
partiality, imperative-facts which I cannot yet understand or form an opinion
upon. For, suspicious 11.8 they appeared at the time of their occurrence, and
uo (from falsehoods since told by the medium regarding them) even still
more appear, I cannot satiafactorily account for them, and would rather give
"Eglinton the benefit of the doubt than do 11.8 others Mve dono in the
Amsterdam matter, and pronounce him guilty.
. Let me, though I would rather have withheld it, say
that before it so unfortunately fell to me to take muslin and
faIse beard from Eglinton's portmanteau, and take him also Htraight-
way into kindly custody from a friend's house to my own, there
keeping him a close prisoner from the police till night drew on and he could
(Iuietly get off by train,-some few days before this, I had on two several
<:tCCa.IIiona cut pieces from tho drapery worn by, and clipped hair from the
beard of the figure representing" Abdullah." I have the pieces so cut of
beard and muslin still. But note that when I took these things into my
possession I and a medical gentleman (five-and-twenty years a Spiritualiat,
.and well-known to the older members of the Movement) found the pieces of
muslin cut exactly fit into certain corresponding portions of the drapery thU8
taken. Moreover, under a Stanhope lena, we found tlle hair clipped most
·closely to match with that of the fahe beald.
:Mr. Colley'S letters also contained an attack on some members of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, in consequence of
which the matter was taken up by the Council of the B.N.A.S., at the
IDstance of 1\-Ir. Desmond FitzGemld. Their meetings were reported by
TI,~ Spiritualist, and the following are the pnSl!ages in those reports
Lea.l·iug on the present question :-
[At IL meeting of the Council of the B. N. A. S., on February 11th,
1879, 1\lr. FitzGerald said] that there seemed to be extraordinary
discrepancies between Mr. Colley's published description of a bygone event,
and the description of it given by the gentleman in whlJ8e house it took
place. Mr. Colley had published in The Medium :-" I, ill view of the family
.8!sembled, had taken the muslin and beard from that medium's portman-
s 2
284 JOllrnal ~f Socie!!! lor PS!lchical Reseal'cu. [JUDe, 1886.
teau," but Mr. Owen Barries, of 15, Russell Street, Landport, who was, he
believed, a respectnble man, had written to him (Mr. FitzGerald), under dnte
of Jan. I!), 1879, that at his house the medium .. bad a small portmanteau with
him; the following morning I felt justified in opening the portmanteau,
and the first thing that rolled out was a piece of muslin (about four yards)
and a beard. • • . I sent to the Rev. T. Colley, and told him about it ;
be advised me to 8I\y nothing about it at present." Thtlre seemed to be a
discrepancy in these statementB.-.The SpiritlKilist, February 14th, 1879,p. 83.
[At a meeting of the Council of the B. N. A. S., on March 11th, 1879,)
Mr. Colley l'8ad a p8888ge from The SpirittKilist, ill which it was stated that.
Mr. FitzGerald had said there were certaindiscrepancies between his account
of an occurrence and another account which bad been given of it. In
justification of his own account, he read a letter which he had received from
Mr. Owen Bn.rries. Mr. FitzGerald might have understood that he (Mr.
Colley) was the first person to find the articles in the bag, but he (Mr. Colley)
had certainly not stated so. What he bad said was that in the presence of the
88sembled family he opened the portmanteau and took out the articles, being
quite willing to take upon himself the responsibility of removing them with-
out inlplicating Mr. Owen Harries, who was the host of the medium at that
time. Mr. Harries had admitted to him that he (Mr. Colley) was correct in
his statement as to the opening of the portmanteau, and htl had made a note
of the transaction in his diary.-The Spiritualist, March 21st, 1879, p. 135.
The next incident which I shall mention is the alleged occult
conveyance of a letter from :Mr. Eglinton on board the Vega to lIrs.
Gordon at Howrah-an incident which appears to me to involve Mr.
Eglinton inextricably in the manufacture of spurious Theosophical
phenomena. Details will be found in Hints on Eboteric Tlteosoplty,
No.1, second edition, pp. 108-125, and in Proceedings cif eM Socuty
for PHycl'ical Research, Vol. III., pp. 254·256. One additional piece of
evidence furnished to me by :Mr. Hodgson I give below. As I haye nl)
space to give the full details of the case here, I shall confine myself to a
brief statement of what appear to me the important points.
Mr. Eglinton, who had been staying with Colonel and ~Irs. Gordon.
at Ho\vrah, went on board the Vega in the Hooghly on his way to
England, on March 14th, 1882. The next morning a. telegram came-
for him (from lIndame Blavat!:ky, I presume from the context), which
Mrs. Gordon opened, saying that one of the Mahatmas wished
him, while Colonel Olcott was at Howrah, to send letters in
his handwriting from on board ship, and that he would be helped. Mrs.
Gordon advised him,-should he consent, to get some fellow-passenger
to endorse the letter before sending it of!' to her. He wrote from
Fisherman's Point on the 15th, saying, " Personally I am very doubtful'
whet~er these letters can be managed, but I will do whnt I can in the-
matter." The Vega left Ceylon on the 22nd, and on the 23rd a telegrata
from Madame Blavatsky asked the party at Howrah to fix a time for a
Digitized by Google
JuDe, 1886.] JOtll'lIail!f Societ!! fol' P$!/ChiC((/ Resea,.cl,. 285
sitting. They named 9 p.m., lIadras time, on the 24th, and at that hour
Colonel and Mrs. Gordon and Colonel Olcott sat in Mr. Eglinton's late
bedroom. After a few minutes a packet fell among them, consisting of
a letter in Mr. Eglinton's handwriting, dated }[arch 24th, a message
from Madame Blavatsky, dated at Bombay, the 24th, and written on
the backs of three of her visiting cards; also a large card such as Mr.
Eglinton had a packet of and used at his seances. The writing on this
latter card purported to be by two of the Mahatmas. All these cards and
the letter were threaded together with a piece of blue sewing silk. The
1lap of the envelope was marked with three Latin crosses in pencil.
The letter expressed Mr. Eglinton's conversion to a " complete belief"
in the" Brothers," an opinion which would henceforth be "firm and
unalterable." He also said that he should read the letter" to Mrs. B.
and ask her to mark the envelope," and made other remarks; but there
seems to have been nothing in the letter which could not perfectly well
have been written before he left India. In return for l\Ir. Eglinton's
expressions of confidence in him "Koot Hoomi" Wl"Ote on the cal-d
about Mr. Eglinton's wonderful mediumship and general excellence of
character.
In the meanwhile, at Bombay, about 8 p.m. (Bombtty time), a party
of Theosophists were sitting with Madame Blavatsky, when a letter
was seen to fall. It contained a closed envelope addressed to Mrs.
Gordon, on the reverse side of which were three crosses in pencil. This
letter Madame Bla,'atsky strung with three of her visiting cards on a.
thre.ld of blue silk, and placed it on a cel·tain bookcase, no other
member of the party having marked it in any way. The whole party
then left the room, und when they returned some minutes later the
packet had disappeared-" evaporated," as they expressed it. But as
the bookcase stood immediately in front of a venetianed door communi-
eating with the room of Madame Blavatsky's servant, Babula, who was
accustomed to help her in the production of m8orvels, and 80S the
venetian spaces of this door are wide enough to allow a hand and part
of the arm to pass through, it seems more probable that Babula re-
moved the packet than that it disappeared in any more mysterious
mamler.
On the Vega It. letter was duly shown to Mrs. B., who was asked
to mark it, but there was a little difficulty about the mark. The
letter which appeared at Calcutta was marked by three crosses in a
horizontal line. Mr. Eglinton marked the one which he showed to
l\1ra. B. with one cross; she crossed that cross obliquely, twice,
making an asterisk of it. But-to quote Mrs. Gordon's words :-
With the singular incapacity to understand the important element of test
conditions which distinguishes nearly all mediullls and persons long
Digitized by Google
286 Jour-l1al ql Society.for Psychical Reseorc". [June, 1886.
familiarised with occult phenomena, Mr. Eglinton unforWnately opened the
envelope which had been first marked, he having enclosed l\JIother letter and
made it too heavy. He then used a new envelope, and being unable to find
at the moment the lady who marked the former envelope, he, in the pre-
sence of three witnesses, made the crosses, di1fering, as you say, from thoae
made before. But tiresome as this mistake on his part is, it loaves the sub-
stantial elements of the wonderful feat accomplished altogether untouched.
The letterwas read, before being sent, to several of tho paBBengers on board
the Vega, and that would alone establish its identity except on the hypothesis
of fraudulent collusion between Mr. Eglinton and the founders of the Theo-
sophical Society in India.
We see, therefore, that there is absolutely nothing to identify the
letters seen on the Vega, at Bombay, and at Calcutta, and that both the
change of mark on the Vega and the occurrences at Bombay are
exceedingly suggestive of pre-arrangement and fictitious miracles.
But this is not a.ll. A Mr. J. E. O'Conor, a Theosophist, on board the
Vega, hearing of Mr. Eglinton's intention of sending by occult means a
letter to Madame Blavatsky, asked to have one of his own sent too. Mr.
Eglinton agreed to put this letter with his, and let it take its chance,
and afterwards told Mr. O'Conor that it had gone. Nothing was heard
of this letter in India at the time of the fa.ll of Mr. Eglinton's. Neither
did Mr. O'Conor hear anything of it. Later, however, Madame
Blavatsky stated tho.t it had arrived soon after the other, and it was
said that she had made no public mention of it because it was a private
letter. I have seen the letter, and cannot but regard this excuse for
not mentioning it as frivolous, since the letter, though doubtless
technically a private one (as Mr. Eglinton's was), contains nothing that
might not be published anywhere, and was pretty obviously written
with the sole object of obtaining a test phenomenon. The following is
Mr. Hodgson's account of the result of his inquiries into the matter:-
So far aa I have been able to ascertain, the fact that Mr. O'Conor had
written under the circumstances described was first made known publicly in
India by Mr. O'Conor himself. Mr. A. O. Hume, in the letter quoted on
p. 125 of Hints on ElJOtel'ic TheOlOphy No. 1 (StCOtld Editioll) writes: "lIn.
Gordon was apparently not aware, as I am, that Mr. --'s letter duly
reached Madame Blavatsky on the same day as Mr. EgIinton'a letter." And
in afootnote Mr. Hume adds that the letter in question was in his
poBBession, " together with a letter of Madame Blavatsky's of the 28th of
March, enclosing itand explaining whyahe wished the matter kept secret."
Now, if Mr. Hume had received Mr. O'Conor's letter in the ordinary
course of the post leaving Bombay on the 28th or 29th of March, it would, I
concoive, be difficult to dispute that some "occult" power had been displayed.
But I find on inquiry from Mr. Hume, that he saw neither Mr. O'Conor'a
letter nor Madame Bla¥atsky's till June 6th. It aeems that after the
appearance of the article in theEliglishmcm on May27th(vide Hiuts, &c., p.ll8)
and the letter by Mrs. Gordon in the Englishman on June 5th (vide Hi"tr,
Digitized by Google
J'UII8, 1886.] JfJlIl'nal qf Societ.1I for PS!lchic«1 Rese((1·cll. 287
&e., p. 122), Colonel Olcott wrote to Mr. Hume, enclosing(a) a.lettcr purport-
ing to ha.ve been written by Madame Blava.uky to him on March 28th
or 29th (the second figure of the date being doubtful), (b) IUl envelope
addressed to Colonel Olcott, post-ma.rked Bomba.y,Ma.rch 29th, registered, and
(c) Mr. O'Conor's lett.!r, torn into three pieces, contaim~d in a.n envelope
docketed thus: .. Letter from O'Conor, of Simla., to H. P. B., received by
her by Astral post, March 24th, 1882, a.nd enclosed to me in her letter of
29th MarcJl, 1882.-H. S. 0." In the letter a.ccompa.nying these documents
Colonel Olcott requested Mr. Hume to write to the Englisllman a.nd explain
the mo.tter; a.ndhence Mr. Hume'sletter of June 7th, which a.ppea.red in
the Engliahman of June 13th. The postma.rked envelope described a.bove
seems to be the sole piece of evidence worth calling such tha.t Mada.me
Blavatsky sent a letter to Colonel Olcott on Ma.rch 29th. while the evidence
that this envelope conta.ined either Mr. O'Conor's letter or Ma.dame
Blavatsky's letter in which she referred to the receipt of Mr. O'Conor's, rests
solely on Colonel Olcott's memory, in which, as we have already seen, but
little trust can be placed. Ma.dame Blava.tsky says in her letter, writing of
Mr. O'Conor: "He is on boa.rd, it seems, and wrote by the 'same oppor-
tunity,' he says. I know where it would lead to were I to take any notice of
Au letter. New test8, new scandals, and new botherations. I tore it up, but
upon second thought ha.d Babula find the pieces, and after reading them to
Damodar, who was alone with me wben it came, I now send tbem to you."
It mo.y be worth mentioning that the phrase, .. same opportunity," does not
occur in Mr. O'Conor's letter, thougb he says in the middle of his letter, "I a.m
taking a.dva.nta.ge of the opportunity to write myself."
I now proceed to give accounts of slate-writing seances. The first
is a. report received from Mr. R. Hodgson and Mr. R. W. Hogg, of St.
John's College, Cambridge. 1
Our sittings with Mr. Eglinton took place at 12 noon on Friday, June
27t1., a.nd Saturda'y, JU1le 28th, 1884, a.nd lasted nearly an hour each
time.
FRIDAY'S SITTING.
Mr. Eglinton uncovered a deal table with two flaps, and placed three
apparently new dusty slates (rather more tha.n 7i by Hi incbes), and
various small fragments of pencil upon the table. He then brougbt a wet
sponge, with which we washed the slates. Olle of these slates was then
marked on tile frame by both of us.
Mr. Rglinton told us where to sit, a.nd himself sat with his back to the
window, facing one of the table.flaps. Hodgson sat opposite Mr.
Eglinton, and Hogg in the middle, on Mr. Eglinton's right hand.
Mr. Eglinton placed a thin piece of pencil about! inch long upon the
ma.rked alate. He then took tile slate in one h!l.nd and placed it uuder tho
table, preuinlt it 8.((ainst the under surface of the table, a corner of the
1 I have learnt from Mr. HodgilOJ1 and Mr. Hogg, since their account was in
lIroof, that they discussed their sittings in detail on Saturda.y, June 28th, 1884, and on
June 29th wrote the rough draft of their report, which W&ll copied substantially as it
atood and sent to Mr. Gurney in the CO\l1'8e of the next few da.YIl.-E.M.S.
Bothllittingawere inMr. Eglinton'sroom in Old Quebec Street.-R.H., June, 1886.
Digitized by Google
288 Journal Qf Society/or Psychical Besearc". [JUDe, 1886.
slate being visible, as was also Mr. Eglinton's thumb resting on the top of
table. Mr. Eglillton's other hand was held by Hogg's left hand, Hogg'a
right hand being held by Hodgson's two hands.
Mr. EgIinton asked us whether we had .ever been t() a seance before.
Hodgson stated that he had, but not to a slate·writing seance. Hogg stated
he had not been to any. Mr. EgIinton suggested that conversatiun was &
good thing, too great concentl"8.tioll not being desirable.
After about five minutes, 1rIr. Eglinton requested us to change place8.
We did so, and then at Mr. Eglinton's further request endeavoured to
"stimulate them" by askinl!' if (dead) friends of ours were present. There
being no result, Mr. EgIinton requested us to ask that some words or some
quot.'\tior.. might be written on the slate. Hodgson thereupon requested
that the following passage might be written :-
" I cannot speak
So well, nothing so well, no, nor mean better."
After another short interval of conversation Mr. Eglinton requested
us to "stimulate them" by repeating the quotation, which Hodgson
accordingly did.
Shortly afterwards, a Bound was heard as of writing on the slate. Whilst
the sound was audible, the corner of the slate was visible, Mr. Eglinton's
thumb alllo visible above the table, both slate and thumb being motionless,
and the sla.te apparentIy in close contact with the under surface of the table.
The Gound having ceased, Mr. Eglinton withdrew the slate horizontally, and
the following words were found to be written on the upper surface of slate :-
"I cannot speak so well," and the fragment of pencil was lying at the
termination of the word weU.
The words were on the side of the slate remote from Mr. Eglinton,
between 7! and 9 inches from tIle edge of the slate nearest to him, and
upside down from Mr. Eglinton's point of view.
Another trial was mado with tIle other side of. the same slate, and under
similar circumstances the word "Ernest" was found written.
Tn another trial, with two slates pll.\Ced one upon the other, the
words, "Good-bye we can write no more," were uneler somewhat
similar circumstances found written (also with ordinary pencil) on the
upper surface of the under slate. In iliis L'18t case, while the sOlUld
as of writing was audible, Mr. Eglinton was holding ilie slates at
one end, Hodgson was holding ilie slates firmly together at the other end,
and could see the greater part of the framework of two sides of Ule upper
sla.te, and the edge of the framework of nearly the whole of one side of the
under slate, which appeared to be in close contact with the slate above.
Before giving them consideration, these phenomena strnck us with a
slight sense of wonderment; but presently we perceived that tho possibility
of their being the effect of ordinary human agency was not precluded.
In tIle first pL'\Ce, although our attention was necessarily distracted by the
conversation in which we engaged, so that not all Mr. Eglinton's movements
after he had taken the slate in his hand could be satisfactorily observed,-we
did observe tha.t the alate and Mr. Eglinton's hand were at times quite out
Digitized by Google
June, 1886.J Jourllal £!f Societ!1 for Psychicalllesearcl,. 289
Qf sight below the table. We consider tllis to be an important point, both
Qf us having taken special notice of it at the time.
hi the second place, Mr. Eglinton'sleft leg was almost entirely out of
sight, so that Mr. Eglinton might at any time have placed the slate upon his
left knee without our becoming aware of the fact.
In the third place, Mr. Eglinton's occasional convulsive movements,
together with the change of hands which he sometim~s found necessary in
consequence of the fatigue produced by the holding of the slate against the
table, afforded opportunities for altering the position of the slate.
".e are of opinion that under such circumstances as the above, it would be
easy for a skilled operator by ordinary methods to produce writing on the
alate, the noise of cunversation serving to obscure any slight sound made ill
the act of \lTiting.
If the writing at our sitting WM thus produced, what enused tho sounel so
distinctly audible just before the slate was exposed to our view 1
Having made experiments, we arc of opinion that with care tlle sound as
of a pencil writing on a slate can be imitated sufficiently well by a finger-
nail on the under surface of the slate, without any visible motion of either
the slate or that portion of the ham} in sight.
No statement ,vas made as to the nature of the three taps which were
heard at the conclusion of the sound as of writing. We may remark, how-
ever, that they resembled the tapping of a finger-nail rather than the tapping
of a pencil.
With reference to the third case, that of the two slates p1"\Ced one above
the other, there are some additional points which we must mention.
We first endeavoured to obtain writing between these slates while they
were on the top of the table, two pieces of pencil, one red, amI the other
ordinary, baving been placed on the lower slate. We asked that a question
might 1<1 written with red, and answered with ordinary pencil.
Mr. Eglinton put his left arm on theso slates, his right. hand holding
Hodgson's left hand.
After BOrne time, Mr. Eglinton took up the third slate with his right hand
and held it under the table, hand and slate being quite out of sight. His left
elbow was then resting on the two slates on the table, his left hand holding
Hod~'IIOn's left hand.
A short interval elapsc<l, when this third slate held under the table fell
upon the floor. Mr. Eglinton immediately picked it up and placed it upon
the table close to the other slates.
Before the pair of slates were taken below the ta.ble,Mr. Eglinton on more
than one occasion lifted the upper slate, and as yet no writing was visible, nor
had any BOund of writing been heard.
Xow the piece of red pencil was not hetween the slates at the conclusion
of the experiment.
Whether on one of the occasions a.bove mentioned Mr. Eglinton removed
the red pencil, we do not remember; but if he did 80, an opportunity would
have been aWorded him, as he thus laid Mide the top slate, of substituting the
third slate for the top slate of the pair.
Of course, the taking of the slates below the table and the subsequent
Digitized by Google
290 Journal qf Society for P8ychical RelJearch. [Jane, 1s...~
change of hands would, as wo have already pointed out, have enabled Mr.
Eglinton to alter the positio1l8 of the slates.
It was not till after these occurrences that Hodgson was requested by Mr.
Eglinton to help him in holding the slatea.
We ahould add that Hodgson had taken a double folding slate, which he
had previoUBly aealed, after placing a fragment of pencil between the alates.
Mr. Eglinton expreued his belief that as the alate-cover was wooden, we
would Dot be ao likely to obtain any writing in this alate as in a pair of
ordinary alates, and in fact our triala willi this were unsucclluful.
Our conclullion ia this :-
We certainly think that during the time the BOund ILS of writing was
audible, Mr. Eglinton was not writing the words that appeared on the alate ;
but we think it WILl quite poaaible for him to have written them previously
in each of the three caaea.
From the above account it would appear that in one or two points we were
somewhat inobaervant. This we acknowledge. But it must be remembered
that it was impouible for ua to engage in conversation and at the same time
to be sure that none of Mr. Eglinton'a movements eacaped our notice.
SATURDAY'S SITTING.
Wo had taken away the two alates upon which writing had appeared on
the Friday, and having encloaed a fragment of pencil between them and aealed.
them together, endeavoured to obtain writing between them, but failed.
We failed alao again with HodgBOn'a sealed folding alate, and failed also
with another single alate of Mr_ Eglinton's.
RICHARD HODGSON.
ROBERT WALLACE HOGG.
Professor O. J. Lodge and Mr. Gurney furnish the next two aecounts.
[MeBBrs. Lodge and Gurney willh to state that they do not regard their
experiences as conclusive, or even as affording any important support to the
theory that the writing is nClt produced by ordinary human agency. The
only succeBB which was really difficult to explain occurred at their first visit.
On subsequent occaaions Professor Lodge always brought his own slate, which
was tied to his finger continuouaIy throughout thesitting. Profeuor Lodge de-
sires further to expreu his feeling that on his first visit he was not a completely
competent observer, if only because the phenomenon expected was then llew
to him; Bnd he agrees with Mr. Gurney in considering that conditions which
do llot exclude the neceuity for continuoUB close observation can never be
completely satisfactory.-June 21, 1886.]
Jlme 30th, 1884. Twelve o'clock in the morning, 12, Old Quebec Street.
Mr. Eglinton's room. Present: Profeuor O. J. Lodge and 1\lr. E.
Gurnoy; Mr. Eglinton. [The record WILl made within an hour of the
conclusion of the sitting.-E. G., June 21, 1886.]
The table was first examined.
A slate of Mr. Eglinton's was t.hon exanlined; 1 and it was ascertained
that the frame of the slate Wa.8 of such thickneu. and extended so far ahov&
1 It should have been stated that the slate was thoroughly cleaned.-O. J. L. and
E. G., June 21, 1886.
Digitized by Google
Jtme, 1886.] Journal of Society/or PS!lchical Research. 2!H
the writing·surface, that when a piece of slate pencil was lying on this sur-
face, no rubbing about of the slate against another flat surface would produce
any marks; that is to say, no other flat surface could touch the pencil.
Professor Lodge marked one surface of the slate with a penknife, both
on the writing.surface and on the wooden rim ; the latter was marked with a
tolerably deeply-cut L. The sitting then began, ProfeBBor Lodge being in
the middle position. The slate was hdd under the table by Mr. Eglinton.
who held it with his ril(ht hand by one comer-his thumb being in view
throughout. His left hand was held by ProfeBBOr Lodge.
The test mark was on the upper surface of the rim, next the table; was.
for most of the time visible, but was occaaionally covered by Mr. Eglinton's
thwnb. 'Ve are absolutely convinced that that surface remained uppemlost.
throughout the experiment. A request was made by ProfeBBor Lodge that.
the word" Bob" should be written. (After some minutes the slate was with-
draWl1and looked at; there was no writing.) After about a quarter-of-au-
hour of waiting, Mr. Eglinton asked Pr9feBBor Lodge to aBBist him in bear-
ing the weight of the slate; and ProfeBBor Lodge crooked his little finger
(of the left hand which was holding Mr. Eglintou's hand) round the rim of
the table and of the slate, in such a way a8 to preBB the slate upwards against
the table. After a few more minutes the usunl scratching sound was heard;
it st<.pped, and Mr. Eglinton snid "Have you finished 1" which was
answered by three faint taps. The slate was immediately withdrawn by
Professor Lodge. The word "Bob" was found very legibly written, at the
end of the slate furthest from Mr. Eglinton, and upside down in relation to
Mr. Eglinton; and the piece of pencil was lying with one end in contiguity
to the last stroke of the last letter.
Before the experiment began the pencil had been chosen and cut quite
square, with sharp comera at each end. by ProfeBBor Lodge. One of these
comera was found to be ground down into a small triangular facet; and the
writing was found to begin with finer, sharper lines, and to end with broader
ones.
We then tried with two slates placed face to face on the table; but
nothing happened.
OLIVER J. LODGE.
EDMUND GUR..'iEy.l
[On July 1, 1884, the same persons had a sitting without obtaining any
result whatever. On this occasion the slate employed was one which
!'rofessor Lodge had brought with him.-E. G., June 21, 1886.]
July 3rd., 1884. 12, Old Quebec Street, 11. a.m. Present: ProfeBBor B.
Stewart, Professor Lodge, and Mr. E. Gunley ; Mr. Eglintoll. [ThO'
record was made within an hour of the conclusion of the sitting.-E. G.•
June 21, 1886.]
1 My experiments with MpssrB. J .•T. Thomson and H. J. Hood on June 20th,
1884, at the same place and with the same "medium." were precisely similar to the,
above, except that the thickllCU of the fr(('m~ W/Ul not noticed (Mr. Elflmton l\IIIlures me.
that the slate W/Ul of just the same pattern a.~ the one IIsed on Jllne 30th), and the con·
cluding detail /Ul to the thicbleBB of tM strokrs was not noticed. Two words were then.
r.roduced-" MancheHter" (in reply to the qUt'8tion what county is Manchester iu), and
'No." in reply to inquiry whether more phenomena were coming.-E. Gt:RNET.
June30.1~
gitized by (.oogI
292 Journal of Societu fol' PS.'Icltical Rese«t·cl,. [Jun~, 18S6.
--------- ---- -- - ---- ---- ----------
Professor B. Stewart sat a little apart, in a position where ne could watch
the slate and hands. The slato was the same as Professor Lodge had used
before ; 1 it had never been out of his care. The slate was attached by string
to ProfeBBor Lodge's middle finger throughout. The marks were as before on
the upper side. ProfeBBOr Lodge sat between Mr. Eglinton and Mr. Gurney.
A piece of "ed pencil was broken in llalf by Professor Lodge. and put on
the slate, which was held under the table as before by l\lr. Eglinton's right
hand. During the latter part of the time, which included the time when
the sOllnd as of writing was heard, Professor Lodge was preBBing the slate up
.against the table with Ills knee.
The word Pearl was asked for. The result was a well and sharply
formed P with an attempt, apparently, at an e. The writing was at the
-eml of tlle slate nearest Mr. Eglinton and was turned towards him. One
end of the piece of pencil was found in contiguity to the second letter ; and
a small freshly formed facet was found at one of the corners of &he
end which had been broken (whether this end was the one in contiguity to
the letter we cannot say).
Professor Lodge examined the slate and pencil, and is certain that there
was a small clear space between t.he table and the top of the pencil as it lay.
By laying the pencil on its narrowestface, in some positions of the slate, it
(:ould be jammed against the top of the table, and by ruhbing about -it
(:ould be ru11ed <.over and made to lllnke brow smudges. But nothing at all
like the fine line of the P could be thus made, nor could loops be lllade
at an.
It seems very clear that the P was written with the corner where the facet
.appeared, and it is yery hard to conceive how the pencil could have
stood so much on end while writing in the small space allowed it.
Professor Lodge by writing a similar letter with a similar piece of pencil
pr~duced an exactly similar facet.
BALFOt:R STEWART.
OLIVER J. LODGE.
EOllXXD GURSKY.
Professor Lodge is perfectly certain that Mr. Eglinton could not ha,"e at
.any time supported tho slate on his knee ; and that his knee was a foot, or
nellrly 1\ foot, from the slat-o throughout. He is also certain that the writing
~f P was not made by rubbing the slate ngainst tIlt! table.
His OW11 knee was always near the slate and usually in cont:\Ct with it,
and holding it stillngl\iust the table.
O. J. L.
[On July 11,1884, Professor Lodge and Mr. Gurney had two sittmgs,
without obtaining any result. Since that date they have had a sixth
sitting, together, and Professor Lodge has had another with another
~omp:mion (the medium in both cases being Mr. Eglinton). On neither
~ccasion was any result obtained.-E.G., JUliO 21, 1886.]
I I.e., at the sitting of July I.-E. G., June 21,1886.
Digitized by Google
Jun., 18116.] Journal Qf Society for P8!Jchical ReBea,·cl,. 293
I will next give some reports of seances by Mrs. Brietzcke, of
72, Sterndale Road, 'Vest Kensington Park, London, 'V.
On Friday, 13th June, I went with a friend, by appointment, to 8.
seance with Mr. Eglinton, taking my Otlm joldj,fIIJ alate, which I have had
for years in use. We" sat" at an ordinary flap-table in the following way ~
}[r. Eglinton held one end of the slate, and held my friend's left hand; I
held with both my hands my friend's right hand. The slates having been
cleaned and a chip of pencil put betll7een two, they were held as duscribed
just under the flap of the table, quite in sight, but still muler the table_
!Ir. Eglinton said .. Is thore anyone here 1" InstanUy we heard writing,
then three little "ticks." The slates were exposed to view, and there was.
"Yes" writ large. l\fr. Eglinton said, "Will you write on Mrs. Brietzcke'&
slate by·and-bye 1" Again the writing and ticks, and again" Yes" in the-
same hand. Mr. Eglinton asked. "Is Mrs. Brietzcke a medium I" "Yes,"
WlI8 the reply. Mr. Eglinton asked me to write a question to BOrne departed
friend. This I did, placing the slate, writing downwards, on the table-
beside me. I asked my father, D. S., if he knew that A. and J. were ill
Jamaica 1 " Yes ;" then a whole side of another slate tea. JiUed with a
message, in a neat close hand, dictated by my father, who was unable I;()
write himself as tlle conditions prevented ; the message was a sort of general
treatise on Spiritualism. I now changed places with my friend, and on 1ny
ott'1l ckned slate was written a message from BOmeone who knew me in New
York, and signed with a name I cannot read. On the other side was.
afterwards written a message saying my father weuld try to write hi1Uself
later on. The writing was quite different from the previous. N.B.-I have
nerer been in New York! I now wrote en another slate, taking care to hidlt
the writing, and placing the slate, with the writing dowllwards, at my side,
"Have J. D. L." (names in full) "and H. B.n 'names ill full) .. met?" The-
reply was, "J. D. L. and H. B. have met: they are very happy." I had
another message, and then one from my father in his handwriting, with
his signature. The last writing said .. Good-bye, the power is exhausted."
This ended the seance, and gave me plenty to think about. After my
change of position took place aU the messages written took place ill mid-air
with the slates held between Mr. Eglinton and myself.
On Tuelday, 15th July, I went with Professor Barrett, and lwd no-
uritiny at aU!
July 19th, 1884-
According to appointment with Mr. Eglinton, Miss L. and 1 went to-day
at 3 p.m. We were late as I went to Hammond's in the Edgware Road and.
bonght three new slutes. We found Mr. Eglinton waiting for us, and we·
immediately "sat" (the Ilates having been cleaned) in the following posi-
tions: Mr. Eglinton held one end of a alate, my own, under the table; I
held the other end of the slate with my left hand; Miss L. held my right
hand in both of hers. I asked "if tllere was anyone 1" We had
no reply fer BOrne minutes. I repeated the question, and we heard writing.
After the three little .. ticks" had been given the slate was exposed, aud
there was the word" Yes" writ large. The pencil was just on the end of
Digitized by Google
294 Journal f!r-Society j01' PS!lchical Research. [.JUDe, 1886.
the , in "Yes." , • . I then aaid "Will you write the word 'Cat'
for me bet1veen the alate8 1" No reply. Mr. Eglinton Baid "Come, write
, Cat' ; there is evidently plenty power." Still no reply. Miss L. tllen
asked, and we heard writing. After the ticks the slate was uncovered, and
there was the word "cat." I said "Please write the figure 4," and the
same slate was placed as before. In a moment we heard writing, and on
lifting the covering slate there was a bold" 4." I Baid "'Vrite 'Man.'''
Miss L. added "So that it can be seen." Instantly we heal'd writing, and
"when the slate was exposed .. Man" was found in 'ret"!! large letten. Mr.
Eglinton said, "I shall ask for a word; Please write • Woman.'" In-
stantly we heard and saw as before. I said "Why did you not write for
Professor Barrett the other day 1" The written reply, obtained ill a few
seconds, was: "Because he dictates his own conditions." I wlOte the
ngure 2 without anyone seeing it, and asked for what I had written to be
repeated on the other side. It was. Miss. L. putH.K.B. privately and aaked
that to be reproduced on the other side. It waa done. I said: "What kind of
medium am I 1" The reply was : "You are a writing and trance medium."
" How am I to develop the power 1" " As Mr. Eglinton has told you." It
biding a slate, told Mr. Eglinton I had put a figure on it. Miss L. did the
same on another slate and kept it. Mr. Eglinton now put a bit of slateand &
bit of red pencil on tlle slate, and said: "Multiply Mn. Brietzcke's and Miss
L.'s figures by 4." We heard writing, and on uncovering saw .. 6 8" in
slate, and .. 272" ill red; 6 and 8 were Miss L.'s and my own figures
respectively. I now Bsked Mr. Eglinton to try his locked slate, and I wrote a.
private question on anoUter slate, letting no one see it, and turning it
question down on the table at my side. On the locked slate we soon heard
writing. My question was "Can you advise -for the family of X. Y. Z '1"
{names in full}. On opening Ute locked slate my8l'./j I saw written: "'Ve
cannot advise for the family of X. Y. Z." (names given in full). I thanked
Mr. Eglinton and Baid "we would not trespass on his tune." He said,
., 011, we will go on till they stop," and took another slate. It waa hardly
held under Ute table before writing began, and when diaclosed the word
.., Good-bye" was on it. This ended Ute seance. I think we had these 13
,vritings in less than an hour, for when I arrived at the Marble Arch it was
4.15, and we were not at Mr. Eglinton's before 3.~, I think. It waa 10
]>88t 3 when we paased the clock at Marble Arch 1J,jore I had bought the
slates at Hammond's. Mr. Eglinton, before we left, held a sheet of note-
paper in his fingers; this he did lightly betlleen his forefinger and thUDlb.
I asked fOl' six taps on the paper, and they were instantly given.
H. K. BRIETzcKB.
This I certify to be an exact account of what took place with Mr. Eglin-
ton, Mrs. B. and myself. J. D. L.
September 22nd, 1884.-Wentto Mr. Eglinton's and met Mr. Gurney,
~Ir. Gurney taking a sealed slate of Professor Lodge's on which we asked for
writing. We had no result. We sat with the sealed slate on the table with
Mr. Eglinton's hands and my left one on the top of the slate. Mr. Gurney
held my right. We got no result. at all. Mr. Gurney, Mr, Eglin-
Digitized by Google
JUDe,18(;6.J Jourllalof 80ciet!1 for Psychical Beaearc/,. 295
ton and I all asked that either a word or Professor Lodge's name should be
put on the slate_till no result. Mr. Gurney then went into the other
room, and Mr: Eglinton and I tried alone with the aoaled alate, but with no
result. Mr. Eglinton then took another slate, an ordinary slate-
clean, put a bit of pencil un the table and placed this alate (1)tr, the
pencil chip. My hands were on the slate, Mr. Eglinton's touching mine on
the back. I felt and heard the pencil moving under the slate. After about 10
minutes' waiting Mr. Eglinton said" Will you write on the sealed alate 1" I
heard writing. and in a short time the three little ticks ; on lifting the alate
was found written the word "No," the 0 being circular and not oval-nO.
llr. Eglinton called Mr. Gurney, and showed him the writing, and we
again tried with the slate, Mr. Gurney saying" Please write ' Itis ' or ' It ie
not' .. the meaning of this being whether it would be any use to take the
sealed alate again on Friday. We waited, but to no efi'ect, and after about
10 minutes more we gave up.
H. K. BRIETU,'KE.
We were with ~Ir. Eglinton in all an hour.
Jtdy 11th, 1885.
DEAR MR. GURNEY,-I was at an exceedingly interesting a~ance on
ThUlllday, dIe 9th, at Mr. Egliutoll'S. I went with Mr. Heaton, and after
a few meaaages where we sought identity we were told in writing to" ask
other t}ueatioDB." We consulted and decided that we would have a tat given.
Mr. Heaton was to choose with his eyes shut a book at random out of the
bookcaae, the page wanted I was to decide by taking a chance number of the
pencil chips on the table. The line down on the page WM to be decided by
Mr. Heaton's chance number of chips. Accordingly the book was choson by
Mr. Heaton with shut eyea,andall we wanted written on a slate,viz.,"Page 29,
line 11, we want tirBt three words on that line." The book WM placed on the
:slate and held by me(it WM a heavy one), as well as Mr. Eglinton, in poaition
under the table. Mr. Eglinton was much disturbed, and in a little time
we heard writing, and on the slate being withdrawn, our words were found
qouted, c'ut-d.-dire, "Line, page 80 and 80," &C. Then below,
"Verses
Lay a gaunt."
We opened the book at page and counted the line down where there 1Cet·S
verses, and the words we had asked tot,.e
" Lay a gaunt."
We repeated the experiments, with this alteration, that we wanted the fifth
word in the page and line chosen by the number (If pencil-chips we drew
from the pile on the table. We had in due course "one-horse" given, and
(In looking found it quite correct. The first book waa one on "Doga"; the
1I8cond, "Guide to Central Italy." I think Mr. Heaton made notea M we
went on, 80 if you wiah tho actual pages and linea in both cases I can send
1hem to you.
This, to my mind, quite does away with the idea of thought-transference.
Supposing Eglinton had read the booka he could not know which line and
word we chose, as the chips drawn decided that, and I can moat truly say
Digitized by Google
296 Journal Ql Soc';et!l .for P8!1chicnl Re8l'nrcn. [June. 1886.
]le certainly never opened the book. I saw his right thumb all the time
acting as a cln.mp to hold the slatej his left hand was on my left, which
helped to hold the slate in position, and the book was at my end of the slate;
the writing came on the surface of the alate on which the book lay, and there-
fore the surface near the table. H. K. DBJETZCKE.
The following account of a seance at 11, Langham-street, January
31st, 1885, at 4 p.m., is by Mr. Harold Murray, of 8, Downshire Hill,
Hampstead, N.W., and of the Denta.I Hospital.
Sitters: Mrs. Murray (widow), Harold Murray (BOn of above).
Mr. Eldinton sat with his back to the windows, at one aide, and near
comer of small square four·legged table. Mrs. M. sat at side of table nearest
fire.pln.ce. I sat facing Mr. Eglinton. Mr. Eglinton held the alate with his
right hand and with his left acroM comer of table he held Mrs. M.'s left. 1
held Mrs. M.'s right hand with both of mine. Small square pieces of com-
posite slate·pencil were used, about this size [about ~ x Jl.J inch] or "ery
slightly shorter.
During the first four experinlenta I marked the pieces of pencil used, and
carefully noticed the ends, before and after each experiment. Before, they
were rough and unworn j after, they wel'e found with on6 end lying at the
extremity of the finishing stroke of the writing, and that end had a smooth
worn facet which corresponded in size with the thickness of the thicker
strokes of the writing produced.
Exceptin answer to question 4, all writing took place in a position upside
down to Mr. Eglintonj and when the writing was sbort, at the end of tile
slate furthest away from him. All writing except answer 8 was in one style,
i.e., the same hand. No.8 was different.
I took with me two slates which I had screwed together (after inclosing
a small piece of pencil), and then tied, sealing the cord to the wooden frame
ao as to conceal the screws. I asked Mr. Eglinton, at the beginning of the
seance, to use these if poaaible. He said he would try to do 80, but he did
not.
All questions not verbal were written in such positions as to be visible to
the writer only, and not to the other two present. The slate was then
turned overand handed to Mr. Eglinton with the question on theundersurface,
so that though he could not see it, the question would be fully exposed from
below when the slate was placed in position under the ledge or wing of the
table.
All slates used were cleaned to our satisfaction, before us, with a damp
sponge and a dry cloth. The answers were pertinent, though we took every
precaution against the chance of Mr. Eglinton seeing the wlitten meaaasea.
Q. 1. Mrs. M. Verbal. "Is anyone here who can communicate with
us? "-A. in three to five minutes, "Yes."
Q. 2. Verbal, by myself. "Is there any truth in the rumours that a
dynamite explosion is to take place at the General Post Office tIlis after-
noon 1"-A.,in two to three minutes, "No."
Q. 3. Written, by myself. "Can my father communicate with us T'-
Digitized by Google
.TUDe, 1886,] JOurnal Qf &ciet!/ .for P8!/chicallluearch. 291
A., one and a-half minutes, "Your father is present, and will try to com-
municate with you both."
Q. 4. Written, by Mrs. M. " Are O.'s present plans likely to lead to his
future welfare, and will they bring him happinesa 1"-We had to wait BOme
time for an answer to this question. Mr. Eglinton asked aloud, after 2 to 3
miDutea, .. Will you kindly give us an answer to this question 1" Directly
afterwards he dropped the alate on to the Hoor; he picked it up and replaced
it under tlap of table. I watched him narrowly but could not see him look
at the message. However, after complaining of the weight of the slate, he
repeated his request for an answer, but modified his words. .. Will you
kindly give us an answer to t~ quutiO/l8 t "-A., after waiting five to six
minutes, ., As far as I can see. Yes. They certainly should."
Q.5. Written by Mrs. M. inside Mr. Eglinton's lock frame book-slate•
.. What do you think of Aggie's state of health,and where had she better
live '" Mrs. M. closed the slate and passed to me to lock. No answer during
aix to eight minutes. It WbS then placed on surface of table in front of us,
while we proceeded with other experiments, as Mr. Eglinton said he could
hold it no longer, on account of its weight.
Q. 6. Written by myself. .. Do you, my father, approve 'of my course
of action during the past few years 1"-A., in three to four minutilS, "Be
-1S emphatically, yes. But you are thinking too hard."
Experiment 7. Q. 5. Locked alate, still unopened; I having retained
key all the time, was held on upper surface of table.-A., in two to
three minutes, " He says you must take great care of her health. Your
husband cannot say to you what place to choose for her."
Experiment 8. Two alates held on upper surface of table. Mr. Eglinton
aakeel for BOme communicationof interest. The slate was filled with writing
in leu than one and a-half minutes. The slate is in my possession.
Experiment 9. Two slates held away from the table but below its level,
by Mr. Eglinton and Mrs. M. Verbal question by myself. " Can .my
father himself give us BOme message 1"-A., almost at once, .. Good-bye.
He can write no more. He sends vou both his dear love."
The next two accounts are by Mr. G. A. Smith and Mr. J. Murray·
'Templeton, Associate of the Society. An account by Mr. Smith of
an earlier .rea.nce was printed in the Journal for May, 1885.
Ma.y 22M, 1885.
Since sending you mylast report of a ance with Mr. Eglinton for alate-
wnting I have been to him again (May 23rd, 1885), accompanied by Mr.
Templeton, an AlBOCiate of the Society for Psychical Research. On this
latter occasion the results were not BO strikingly profuse-indeed from one
point of view the .-nee was a failure, but to Mr. Templeton and me the
meagre results obtained posseBB great interest from the fact that we feel so
well able to testify to the perfection of the conditions. Mr. Eglinton 8tated
beforehand that the day was an exceptionally unfavourable one j he con-
sidered the atmospheric conditions too disturbed to promise good phenomena.
T
Digitized by Google
298 Journal f!f Society for P,ycllz'cal Researc,," [Joe. 1886•
.As a matter of foot the day was dull and oppressive, with thunder and
rain.
I took with me my own slates-ordinary school slates and two book
slates, and these were used throughout at Mr. Eglinton's own request. Mr.
Eglinton and Mr. Templeton I18.t. facing each other, on opposite sidea of the-
table, whilst I I18.t at the third side holding the left hand of each, Mr.
Eglinton's right being occupied with holding the slate beneath the table-ft"p_
In thie way we I18.t for three.quart8n of an hour, Mr. Eglinton occasionally
changing one slate for another, and IOmetimes placing a slate upo,. the table-
with a crumb of pencil or crayon beneath it. Dut no writing came, and we
were on the point of giving up the trial. It was suggested, however, that as.
a last resource it might be advill8.ble to alter our positions, and Mr. Temple-
ton and I changed places accordingly. Mr. Eglinton then took one of my
book-alates (a pair of ordinary slates fastened together with cord up one side
so thatthey could be opened and shqt but not separated entirely) and placed
it firmly just beneath the table, holding it there with the fingen and thumb
of his right hand. Whilst doing 10 he complained of his hand being fatigued
in consequence of the time he had been holding slates in that position (this
lllay be held toJ account for a slate being dropped on to the floor once during
the seance) ; 10 Mr. Templeton slightly raised one of his knees and held it
firmly against the lower slate, thus pressing the two close against the table,
and keeping theln unmistakably together. With this position l\lr. Eglinton
appeared pleased, and said it was a great relief to hie tired hand. But
nothing came, and llr. Templeton got tired of it, BO he removed hie knee.
and held the slates with his left hand instead. In this position I was well
able to see that the slates were clo8e together and jammed against the table.
and Mr. Templeton was alao able to feel and see the exact state of aft'ain.
In a few seconds Mr. Eglinton became disturbed: he breathed heavily
and seemed oppressed: and then we all heard the BOund of writing. The
sounds seemed to come from between the two slates, which Mr. Templet.on
and Mr. Eglinton were still holding together, and which I could see w_
not separated in the least. The writing seemed produced with difficulty ; it
had the sound of being done slowly and laboriously, and the scratching came
decidedly from the slates, as well as one is able to speak of a BOuud the-
.cause of which is unseen; but Mr. Templeton should bve more exact im-
pressions on this point, hie hand being in contact with the slates. At any'
rate when the three taps came indicating conclusion, and Mr. Eglinton.
carefully withdrew the slates, without a muscle of hie hand having apparently-
moved the whole time, I opened them and we found the words, .. The·
poweris against us," written at the extreme edge farthest from him, on the
lower one of the two slates, and upside down to him-that is, the writing
faced me. The crumb of pencil was resting near the last word, and was·
worn down as if it had been used to write with. It is noticeable that the-
sentence written on the slate corresponded with an observation that Mr_
Eglinton had previously made, to the effect that he felt the presence of
plenty of "power," but thatfor some reason, probably atmospheric, it was.
not able to be utilised.
Another slate was then put in pOllition, but as no more writing came Mr.
Templeton suggested that it might be easier, perhaps, to rap out a meuage.
Digitized by Google
Juae,l886.] Journal Qf Societ!/ lor P8ycMcai Rl'lIem·ch. 299
by taps with a pencil. We listened for a few momenta, and then heard BOme
curious throbbing on the floor beneath our feet. Addressing Mr. Eglinton
I asked if that was rapping, and he replied that he believed it was j but, as
we spoke, the raps became distinct, and three BOmewhat loud thumps were
given. It seemed impolBible to localise the exact position of these BOunds
with certainty j but they seemed to be just beneath our feet, and rather in
the floorthan upon it. All our feet were in full view at this time, and the
room ia a well lighted one-so I cannot suggest any means by which Mr.
Eglinton could have produced them himself j for I did not perceive, and I
do not think Mr. Templeton noticed, that he made the slightest move whilst
they were occurring. In reply to questious addressed to them by Mr.
Templeton the thumps indicated, by three for Yes and one for No, that the
lack of better phenomena was due to the weather, and not to any inhar-
monious element existing in the sitters. They then ceased altogether j and
the Hance concluded after we had made some unsucceBBful attempta all round
to imitate with the heels of our boota the BOunds we had just heard.
G. A. SMITH.
May ~t", 1885.
DEAR MR. GURNEY,-Mr. Smith's statement seems to require little
more than corroboration, which I now give. While compMatively a f,wure,
tho words obtained at tho end of the sitting were given under what appear
to me quite spooial test conditions-unlesll, after three-quarters of an hour's
waiting, both Mr. Smith's and my own attention failed us. . . . The
folded (and bound) slates were Mr. Smith's, and from the time Mr. Eglinton
lifted them from the table till the writing came they were .wo either held by
my knee firmly against the under side of the table-flap or by my hand. I
cannot say that I distinctly felt vibration within the slates at the moment I
could certainly hear the BOund as if within.
Conceming the raps, I could not at all localize them, and they were too
easily obtained by ordinary means to be, as they came under my notice, of
I18rvice.
Mr. Smith asks me if I noticed Mr. Eglinton's exhaustion. This I did,
and have always done, and conceive it to be too real in Ilis appearance to be
acting-and this the more from observation of a friend of mine, a n(lll-
Spiritualist, who is quite similarly affected and exhausted.1
I shall be glad to give any further information on any special point if
deaired, and remain,:"""Sincerely yours,
J. MURRAY TEMPLE'l'ON.
JtI1~ 12th, 1885.
On Thursday evening. June 11th, at 9 o'clock, Mr. Tompleton and I had
another Hance with Mr. Eglinton for experimenta and observations in slate-
writing. Mr. Eglinton had remarked at a previous ~ance that as a general rule
the.uccess of the manifestations depended in a great measure upon the sitters,
and had observed that persons sensitive to the action of mesmerism were
decided acauisitions to the cirelli. We accordingly agreed that it would be
1 In the presence of Mr. Eglinton.-G. A. S.
Digitized by Goo~fe
300 Journal ~f Sociefyfor PS.'lcllicol Rese(,rch. [Jane, 1.886.
lUI well to avail ourselves o! the advantages supposed to be attached to the
presence ofa sensitive, and I invited a young lady in whom I had occaaionally
induced light hypnotic trancea, and whom I also knew to be an intelligent
and careful observer, to make one of the party.
We sat at Mr. Eglinton's table, in the ,best light a three-jet chandelier
could afford; Mia P-- at his suggestion occupied the side on the right
of the medium, Mr. Templeton sat on his left, and I Be&ted myself facing
him. I had provided myself with four school-slates, two book-alates, and
one small transparent drawing-slate-all bearing my signature. One of the
school-slates was then held beneath the table by Mr. Eglinton in the usual
way ; that is, closely pressed against the under surface, and barely out of
sight-in fact, the edge being held is more often than not in full view; and
of course the whole of the hand with the exception of the first two joints
of the fingers, which support the alate in position, is exposed to everyone'.
observation. The writing material was a small crumb of alate-pencil or
coloured crayon, as we chose to determine.
The first question asked, with a view of ascertaining whether a good
seance might be expected, was, "Are the conditions good1" In a few
minutes we heard a grating BOund, as of writing being executed, and on the
slate being Blowly and carefully withdrawn, the word" Yes" was found f)n
the extreme end of it farthest from the medium i the crumb of pencil
resting on the final curl of the B, and with one of its edges worn down. It
should be said that all the writing which subsequently appeared was always
found at the extreme end of the slate ; was alway. upside down to Eglinton,
and it was always undoubtedly produced on the side of tho alate which faced
the table.
Mr. Templeton and I then discussed two or three test experiment.8 which
we considered it would be well to try ; and as Mr. Eglinton expresaed his
willingneaa to embark in any of them, I suggested that the safest plan would
be to ask the "intelligencea" which of the proposed experiments would best
fall within the scope of their ability. The reply, written in the Ulual way,
was "Leave us to do what we can." Mr. Eglinton then told us of an
interesting manifeatation which he IOmetimes obtained with coloured craY0nB;
and wo all agreed that we should like to try it forthwith. Three amall pieces
of crayon--11'"n, yellow, and red-were placed upon a alate together; Mill
p-- ..ked that the figure 9 might be written in green, Mr. Templeton
propoaed that99 should be produced in yellow, and I voted for the figures
12 in red. The llate was then placed beneath the table-flap, and writing ....
lOOn to be heard; on it being withdrawn, there was written 12999-the
first two figures in red, the second two in yelloto, and the last one in grun.
!twas, moreover, noticeable that the piecea of coloured crayon which had
presumably been used in the writing were found lying in a line just beneath
the figures, each beneath their corresponding colours.
I then produced my transparent slate, and proposed that we should
endeavourto get one of the pictures traced. Mr. Eglinton embraced the idea
with pleasure, and ..ked which of the four pictures on it (two heada, a leg,
and anarro) we should request to be traced. We decided on the leg-and
browncrayon, as being the most difficult to see against the background to be
traced; the slate was then placed in position, with two pencils upon it to
Digitized by Google
June. 1886.] JOllrnal(!f Societ!/ for P81/cRicai Research. 301
separate its 8urface from the table, 80 as to leave the necessary space for the
crayon to move in. Soonwe heard a 80ft IICraping sound, as of lines being
drawn, and on Mr. Eglinton removing the slate we found that a portion of
the leg had been roughly but correctly traced-viz., on the underneath side,
from the bend of the knee to the ankle, the heel, and the sole of the foot.
We now expressed our desire to get something written which could be re-
garded as outside the knowledge of any of us-such as a certain word on a
given line of a chOllen page of a book ; and we proposed that the "controls"
should be asked if such an experiment would be likely to succeed. The
reply, obtained in the usual way, was, "If you like to try it we will be
happy to do our best for you, for you know we see you do not dictate your
own conditions." The last word of this sentence appeared to have been very
hastily and carelell81y written, and we were uncertain what it was intended
for; 80 the slate was held beneath the table again, with the request that this
word should be re-written more legibly. Immediately we heard writing, and
the word" conditions .. was found occupying nearly the whole width of the
alate.
I then went to the bookshelf, took a book at haphazard, without of courSll
looking at the title, returned to my seat, placed the book upon the chair,
and sat upon it whilst we were arranging the page, line, and word to be
asked for. This point Mr. TempletAb and I decided by ea.ch taking a few
crayons and pencils from the table by chance, and counting them; Mr.
Templeton had poBS6118ed himself of 18 pieces of crayon, and I hat! seized !)
pieces of pencil, we found on counting them ; we therefore decided that th:>
"controls" should be asked to write the last toord of line 18 on 1X'1fe 9 of the
book. This article I now produced, and laid it upon one of my slates, and
Mr. Eglinton held the two close beneath the underneath of the table-the book
of course being held firmly closed between the table and tha slate. We
then commenced conversing; in the midst of Mr. Eglinton's own remarks the
writing was heard to comlnence. For about 25 seconds he was talking and
the wri~ng was going on simultaneously ; he thenceased, and the writing con-
tinued lfew more seconds before the three taps came indicating ita conclusion.
The meuage we found was as follow8 :-" This is a Hungarian book of
poems. The last word of page 18 (page 9, line 18) is bunhoseded."
After we had observed that a mistake in the figures had been corrected
in parenthesis, I opened the book at page 9, and we found that the last wor.!
on line 18 of that page was "bunhodesed." Remarking upon the fact that
the last two syllables of the word had been transposed, we asked the
.. controls" if it was a mistake, and how it had arisen; we received the
written reply: "Yes. We have not power to properlJ' read the last word. 'J
As a test experiment I think this may be regarded as a very successful
and crucial one; for it is difficult to believe that Mr. Eglinton can have COIll-
J mitted to memory the exact position of every word in every book on his
bookshelves-containing some 200 books, or more. And it is easy for us to
say with confidence that all his movements were so carefully watched that the
slightest attempt on his part to open the book, or even to touch it, would
have been detected almost before the attempt was made; and it is a fact that
the book was never once touched.by him, and could not possibly have had
one of ita leaves exposed to his view for an instant, let alone page 9 long
gitized by (.oogI
302 Journal qf Society for P'!lcAiealRe8earch. [JUDe, 1886.
enough to enable him to count down to the 18th line. Of course the test.
would have grea.ter value as IUch had we been able to Ole a book which we
could be certain he had never rea.d ; but if this point tells against the result,
the fact that by a happy chance my selection caUied a Hungarian book of
poems to be used should surely counterba.la.nce this evidential ftaw to a great.
extent, and reduce the chances of his having memorised the position of
every word in it to a minimum. That I ",as not !(}fUeI. to take this lpecial
book from its being in a particularly handy and prominent poeition, and that
page 9 and line 18 were not "led up to II by Mr. Eglinton is obrioUl-
from the foot that I made my selection without looking at the books; and
that the page QDd line were determined by chance, then and there, as I have
dtllCribed.
Presumably with the object of taking advantage of the "power II ap-
parently present, this IUccessful experimentwas quickly followed by another.
Eglinton took one of my book-slates, dropped a crumb of pencil between
the leaves, and cloeing it, placed it in the U1ual position. It was then
partly in sight, whilit we were chatting (and watching) and waiting for
something to come. In the midst of the talking I thought I heard writing
being done, and said 80 ; but the others thought I was mistaken, and we
continued to wait. Presently Mr. Eglinton dropped the slate upon the floor,
and on his picking it up we found .. Good-night" written at.the foot of one
of the leavell.
In conclusion I must add that Miss P--, who sat next to Mr. Eglinton
and held his left hand, &Bsurel me tha.t she did notobserve anything in hi.
behaviour to indicate that he took any active part in the production of the
writing; and a young lady with doubts and a large hat can conltitute a very
critica.lobserver. Though I did not lit next to Mr. Eglinton I had in every ease
a good view of the hand which held the slate, and in most cas81 lufficient
view of the slate it3elf to know that from the time it was placed in position,
to the time of its withdrawnl with the' writing on its upper surface, it was
firmly pressed a~a.inst the lower surface of the table.
G. A. SMITH.
(Mr. Templeton ani I ha.ve each written independent accounts of this
eance ; his report is attached, and I think correllponds with mine in the im-
portant points.)
JUlie 14th, 1885.
AI Mr. Smith will probably provide a detailed account of this our last
lIitting with Mr. Eglinton, I sha.ll do no more than record what I consider to
be the main factors in the conditions and lIucceeding results. A. friend of
Mr. Smith'lI, MiM P--, who from a fonner experience was supposed to
give" power," was also present, QDdsatnextto Mr. Eglinton.
First a few questions as to poBltJ.on, what tests could be obtained, &c.,
were put, and all answered satisfactorily on a slate held against the under
lIide of the table. Then three difl'erently coloured morsels of crayon having
been placed on the llate, and the Ilate pressedagainst the table, Mr. Eglinton
asked Miss P--, which crayon Ihe would choose to have used in the writ-
ing of any number she might namp. She fixed on the number 9 to be
Digitized by Google
.Jnne, 1886.] Jourllal qf Sockt!l/or PS.lJchical Research. 303
written in green, I deaired 99 in yellow, and Mr. Smith 12 in red. The num-
beraand colours were arranged while Mr. Eglinton held the alate againat the
table ; and no change in the position of the slate or hia hand took place till
the writing was heard, and we found the numbers in their respective colours
~orrectly written out.
Mr. Smith now brought out a child's outline dra.wing slate for copying on
glass the underlying figures drawn on white paper, and desired some part of
the drswing to be reproduced. The wooden edge of the alate only allowing
a space of some one-tenth part of an inch between the glaas surface and the
underside of the table-flap, two crayon pencils were placed parallel to one
another a.gain.st the wooden slate edges-thU8 giving, when pressed against
the table, a space of about one-quarter of an inch in which a broken pencil
point could move. We waited some time, probably 10 minutes, and then
heard the soft scratching of the pencil. Part of a leg had been accurately
copied, we found.
Next the final and moat crucial test was proposed by Mr. Eglinton. It had
been suggested to his own mind by a former test of my own, in which I had
wished to preclude all pouibility of any explanation such as thought trans-
ference (this former test is subjoined). We arranged that Mr. Smith should
turn to the bookshelves behind him, choose a book at random, in which we
could fix upon a certain word in a certain line of a given page-which word
was to be written for us. On taking a book Mr. Smith asked Mr. Eglinton if
he knew what it was. Mr. Eglinton answered" Yea," and that &8 it was a
rather trashy novel it might be better to choose another. Mr. Smith then
took a smaIl red-covered book from the opposite shelf, and this Mr. Eglin.
ton said he did not recognise. As the thtlory of the medium's mesmeric
influence over the sitters had been more than once put before me as a not
impossible explanation I suggested we should fix the line by the number of
crayons in 0. box before us, which gave us the 18th line; and in a similar way.
from a separate heap of slate pencils, we obtained the number 9 for page.
The l&8t word in the line .was chosen. We all remained in ignorance of the
book's name or contents; nor at any time could ithave been possible for Mr.
Eglinton to open it without exposing himself to immediate observation. It
\\'as now placed on the slate, and presaed by Mr. Eglinton firmly a.gain.st the
table. After aome slight waiting came tho sound of writing, and having
brought the slate and book on the table wo found a ahort messago aaying
that the book was Hungarian, naming in some confusion the order of our
question, and finally finished by the word " bunhoseded." Hardly realising
this at fint to be Hunzarian we puzzled over it, and pronounced it &8 best
we could; then turning to the line and page found the word &8 we had spelt it
Qn the ,late previoU8ly with but the reversion, the, and d. It should have
been" bunhodesed."
* * * * * * * *
To a former Bitting with Mr. Eglinton, I took aix queatioll.B in an
envelope. They were simple, such &8 a child could answer, but required
the mQlt direct of replies-were somewhat &8 this: "Name tho first three
IIlontha of the year," &c., and were each on the one aide of six identicalslipa
of paper. Mr. Eglinton W&8 quite unaware of my proposed teat, and I
wddenly took the envelope from my pocket, chose a slip at random, and
.'
304 Joul-nal of Societ!/ for P8!/cllical Research. [June, 1886.
placed it question downwards on a slate in the middle of the table. 1 with-
drew my fingers as another slate closed it (the slip) down. The three present
then rested their hands on the two slates, and presently came the sonnd of
writing, on this occasion more like drawing than the usual quick short letter-
formation. Mr. Eglinton knew 1 could draw, and very naturally asked me
if I had asked" them" to draw something. 1 aa.i.d "No," but wondered
inwardly, forgetting that one only of my questions could be answered by
figures. Uncovering the lower slate 1 fonnd my slip as 1 had left it, and
the question: "How many days and months ho.s the year 1" answered in
numbers thus: 365
12 large size
:fl7
1 cannot believe my powers of observation fo.iled me, and that the
question became known to Mr. Eglinton. Since, 1 have been told that
., Telepathy" or "Thought-transference" might cover this case, inasmuch
as the whole six questions were lying in my brain; but the late book-test,
just recorded, proves this explanation to me to be quite insufficient.
(S~ed),
J. M. TEMPLETON.
The following account has been received from Mr. E. M. C., an
Associate of the Society.
Seance with Mr. Eglinton at his house, 6, Nottingham Pla.ce, November
12th, 1885, 3 p.m. to 4.30 ; daylight, and also two gas burners. Present:
E.M.C., F.C., A.C., E.A.W., K.W.
W.E.
K.W. A.C.
Table
E.A.W. E.M.C.
F.C.
E.M.C. had not brought a slate with him. l\fr. Eglinton produced
four, and the locked slate j three of these slates were laid aside on the
table at the back; one was thoroughly wetted with a piece of sponge,
and dried with a duster by Mr. Eglinton, and given to E.M.O., who then
wrote his initials on the frame. (I would remark that ill every case, when an
answer had been given, Mr. Eglinton wiped it out, and cleaned the slate in
the same manner.)" 1 also answer for it that the slate was not changed, as
I watched it all the time, having been requested to do so. E.M.C. wrote
a question on the initialed slate, and did not show it to any of us. Mr.
Eglinton took the slate, held it under the mble with his right hand, and after
JIUl" 1886.] Journal of Society for ,P81/cllicallle8earcll. 305
some time the question W88 answered lucidly. Other verbal queations were
put and answered by yes or no, the alate being cleaned each time 88 before
stated. Mr. Eglinton then asked E.M.C. if he had a bank note or cheque
with him j he had not, but he said he had in his purse a paper which had been
there BOme time, and that he had entirely forgotten what it W88, F.C. and
A..C. did not know what it was either. The paper, folded in four 88 it wsa
taken out of his purse, W88 placed by E.M.C. unopened in the folding alate,
and lOCked by him j the key he put in his pocket. Mr. Eglinton for atronger
proof tore a piece of the edge paper oft' BOme poatage atamps, and
without removing the alate from the table he atuck it 011 not
far from the lock, and BOme way round on either aide of the alate. That
alate,Mr. Eglinton then placed on hia left hand aide, and his elbow touched it.
Then Mr. Eglinton took the initialed alate, cleaned it, and placed on it three
pieces of chalk, white, green, and pink. (E.M.C. had, previously to the
cbalk8 being put on, written a question.) Mr. Eglinton asked E.M.C. to
choose what colour he would have his anawer written in j E. M. C. chose
white, and received an answer to his question conaisting of BOme 10 or 12
warda i4 white chalk j the locked alate remained during this on the table
where it W88 placed after having been locked, &C. Mr. Eglinton now took
the locked alate and held it under the table with his right hand j nothing
came j he held it several times on the table :and under the table j nothing
came. He then held the initialed alate under the table with his right hand.
placed the locked alate immediately above it on the table, and on that alate
he placed K. W.'a hand and his own. Writing W88 heard, but it W88 on th&
alate under the table-a few worda. Mr. Eglinton then placed both his hands
ovet K. W.'s hand 011 !;he locked alate j he was atrongly controlled j writing
was heafod, the alate 11"88 given to E. M. C., who partially unlocked it (taking
the key from his pocket), but the lock did not open very easily, and Mr.
Eglinton turned the key, having fil'llt cut the paper that held the alate to-
gether. (While Mr. Eglinton did this the alate remained on the table before
E. M. C.) The paper was in the alate, folded 88 when put in, andan anawer
was written to the eft'ect that it was a receipt of the Grosvenor Gallery
Library No. 21380, in large figures, which was perfectly correct. Mr.
Eglinton then said he would try another experiment. He took the initialed
alate, cleaned it, took from the table at the back one of the other alates
(which had all the time been lying there), he alM) cleIJned that;
he put the initialed alate over the other, and placed them before him on
the table. He held K.W.'a hand on the alatea j both his handa were on.
He said he felt another influence. From the commencement of the aitting
to this time, A. C. had her handa together joining E. M. C.'a, all tho other
membel'll of the circle touching each other, and either Mr. Eglinton'a right
or left hand holding K. W., according to the slate being in hiB right hand
under the table, or his left hand when it was on the table. Mr. Eglinton
now changed places with K. W. K. W. took A. O.'a right hand with her
left, Mr. Eglinton took E. A. W.'a left hand with his right, and K. W.'s
right hand with his left. (I should mention that after he moved he lifted
the top alate from the bottom, and nothing was written j and that E. A. W.
can vouch for it, 88 well 88 the othel'll, that the slates were left on the table
mile Mr. Eglinton moved from one chair to the other.) The circle of hands
Digitized by Google
306 Journal qfSociety.f01' PsytJ!lical ResearclJ. [JUIlf', l886.
was now unbroken; the alate8 were 00 the table; K. W.'8 hand (right) was
in E. A. W.'8 ;Mr. Eglinton'8 hands holding the two together on the alates j
nothing came. Mr. Eglinton said, "We must hold the 8lates." The
alatea were held (part of the hand being between the 81ates and the table) as
marked on the diagram. E. A. W. held the ala.tes with her left hand at
K.W.
w,E.I, 3
5 A.C.
E.M.C.
Is
/ \
1 4
E.A.W.
Table
6
F.C.
No.l;- Mr. Eglillton held the alate8 with his right hand at 2; K. W. held
the 8lates with her left hand at 3; and Mr. Eglinton placed hi8 left hand
partly on K. W.'8 hand a.t 3 and partly holding the slate8 towards 4,. At
5, K. W.'8 left hand was in A. C.'8 right, and at 6, F. C.'a left hand was in
E. A. W.'8 right. Mr. Eglintun was moat 8trongly controlled, a.nd
we all heard writing, and I distinctly felt the vibration in the alates,
-our hands hemg between the slates and the table; Mr. Eglinton
remarked that if the circle were broken the writing would coase; and to
prove this he lifted hi8 left band from contact with the 8lates three times,
and each time we heard the writing coaae, and commence when he put his
"hand again on K. W.'8 and UtO slates. It is difficult to measure time
accurately, and I forgot to IOI.k at the clock, but in about ( I should think)
three minute&, the writing ceased, and Mr. Eglinton took oft' his handa and
:sat back quite exhausted. We took oft' our hands. I took the top alate from
,tJte other alate, and we found that other IJQvtrtG with close writing; 32 linea,
.195 words. The meaaage is from Ernest and is not like Mr. Eglinton'8 hand-
writing. Mr. Eglinton then went back to-his original place, and K. W. to
llera. The slate with the meuage on was left on the table; Mr. Eglinton
l'ubbed his finger twice down it, to show it was written with alate pencil. (I
llave the alate, this can be 8een.) Mr. Eglinton then took the initialed alate,
which had been on the top and held it. under the table-on it was quickly
written that someone was there-that someone being mentioned by bis Chria-
tian name; he had died some 15 years ago, was E. M. C.'8 son, and his
<lhriatian name could not poaaibly have been known to Mr. Eglinton. The
alate was cleaned as before, two more queatit'll8 were put and &ll8wered. A
farewell meuage was given saying that the power was exhausted. I think
Digitized by Google
JUDe, lS8li.] Journal Qf Societufor P,!/cMcal Baeaf'ch. 301
there ia nothing to add, escept that in all ClUe. where the llate was held
under the table, it was done by Hr. Eglinton'l right hand, the thumb being
visible above the table, and enough of the hand being visible to K. W., (who
sat close) to lee that it did not move. Mr. Eglinton'lleft hand was, during
theae times, alwaYI holding K. W.'I left (reaching acroaa). A. C. had both
her hand. near E. M. C.'I; Mr. Eglinton nover left hi, chair during the
sitting ucept to change with K. W. twice; and during that change the slates
were on the table.
( Signed,) E.M.C.
F. C.
A. C.
E.A.W.
(K.). W.
The reports of the next six seances were drawn up by Miss J. H.
Symons, Associate of the Society.
&ptember 22t1d, 1885.
On Monday, September 21st,at 2.30, Mrs. L. and I had a aitting with Hr.
Eglinton at his rooms in 6, Nottingham Place. On our way to him, we
bought two ordinary Ilates, and a hos of slate-pencils. Thele slatel were
washed Ind dried by Hr. Egliuton before the seance began. He fint broke
ofa small bit from one of our pencill, and placed it on the Ilate under the
table. The pencil however being round rolled about at the llightost move-
ment of the medium, ho therefore asked me to mark one of his own bits of
pencil-which wore ftat---ilO that I could recognise it again, and thil was
placed on the llate. Eglinton I&t on one side of the table, Mrs. L. neltt him,
and I opposite. We joined hands, and first asked aloud, .. Will you write
for UI to-day 1" but as after a few minutes' interval 110 reply had been given,
lIr. Eglinton handed me the llate, and asked me to write some quostion. I
did 10, carefully shading what I wrote with my left hand, 10 that I am sure
no onll, not. even Mrs. L. who was sitting next. me, could have leen what I
'11'88 writing. I then showed my question t() Mn. L., and passed the slate to
Mr. Eglinton with the clean aide upwards, who without glancing at. it placed
the slate under the table. About half an hour after the commencement of
the seance we first. heard the aound of writing, followed by three raps, the
signal that the question had been anlwered. Mr. Eglinton withdrew the
alate very Ilowly from under the table, 10 that by no po88iblo means could the
m8l8l\ge have been written whillt the slate W81 being withdrawn, for we
I&W the upper half of the lotters before the whole became visible. In
answer to my question" Could I over develop as a medium 1" was written
on the other aide of the slate, "Yea, for you are a medium." I then asked
aloud if the "intelligence" would allow UI to try lOme teat., aud II Yes" was
immediately written. I said I should like proof of lOme intelligence
exterior to either of the three poraons present. in the room, and askod if I
might take a book from the bookcase behind me, and request the "intelli-
gence" to write a certain word of a certain page. Mr. Eglinton consented.
only asking that. the book might. be a .mall one to prevent. the alate being
unneceuarily heavy. I chose one without looking at it, put. it. on
one of our alatea. and handed it to Mr. Eglinton, who at. once
Digitized by Google
308 Journal oj Societylor P81Jcltical Re8em·ch. [Jun8,1886.
placed it under the table without looking at it. .U Mr. Eglinton's
own request to make the test more conclusive, MI'B. L. took up a handful of
pencils, the number of which was to determine the page, and I a handful
which should determine the line. By this means we Jlot page 17, line 6 (from
the top) and we further chose word three from the beginning of the line.
These numbel'B Mr. Eglinton jotted down on another slate, that we might
afterwards compare them with what should be written. After about &
quarter of an hour, during which time Mr. Eglinton appeared to be somewhat
convulsed, he asked MI'B. L. to support the slate with him, as he found it
rather heavy. At the moment that MI'B. L. touched it, we heard writing,
and at the same time she felt a vibration coming apparently from the very
spot where we afterwards saw thE! writing to be. The thre.J taps were
given, Mr. Eglinton handed us the slate, on which was written the word
" fruit," and which-on referring to the book, " Songs of Passionand Pain,"
by Ernest Willing-we found to be correct. Mr. Eglinton appeared
exhausted after this, but offered to continue the seance. To our question
..Who is the intelligence who has just communicated with us 1 we received a
quick reply, "I am a guide of the medium." We next asked, "Whatia
your name 1" and" Joey" was immediatelywritten. (Mr. Eglinton had pre-
viously told us that he had a guide called "Joey.") Mr. Eglintonagain pot
the slate under the table, asking what test we would like to try now ; before
wo had time to answer writing wasagain heard, and on withdrawing the slate
the message proved to be "Good·bye," with which the seance concluded.
JESSIB H. SntOys.
A-H. L--.
I should add that the pencil used appeared to be the same as the one I
had marked. Mr. Eglinton returned it to me on the slate ; and I noticed that.
the facets on one side were slightly rubbed down.
J.H.S.
September 25th, 1885.
On Thuraday, September 24th, 1885, MI'B. L. and I had a second sittin~
with Mr. W. Eglinton for slate.writing. We again took our own slates, and.
the conditionl throughout were identical with those of our previous Bitting.
except that in one instance writing was obtained on a locked slate, restin;t
on, not under the table.
After taking our places, MI'B L. next Mr. Eglinton, and I opposite him.
I wrote on one of the slates we had brought with us, unseen by Mr. Eglinton,
84be 11. contutarme en EIp<&1wl1 ("Can you answer me in Spanish T') In about
a quarter of an hour I received the following rather amusing reply: "There
is no French scholar present. JOEY."
MI'B. L. then asked on a locked slate of Mr. Eglinton's, and always
unleen by him, "Can you communicate a me888ge from my mother 1" ".e
locked this alate oUl'B8lves, it was never removed from the table, or out of
our sightforone single instant. Mr. Eglinton merely:rested one hand upon it.
Very shortly after, we heard writing, the three taps were given, Mr. Eglinton
handed us the slate, which we oUl'BelveJl unlocked and on the opposite Bide
Digitized by Google
JUDe, lS86.] JOllrnal qf &ciefy for P8.,!cnicnl Resenrcn. 309
tQ that on which Mrs. L. had written the question, was the reply, .. We are
not in communication with your mother." An answer which, though not so
fl&tiafactory as we could have wished, was at least to the point.
Mr. Eglinton then held one of our slates under the table, and I asked
"erbally: .. Since you say I am a medium will you tell me how I can best
develop 1" .. Bysitting frequently at your own house," was the prompt
reply. Whilst we were looking at the writing and the pencil, 'with which
apparently it had been written, Mr. Eglintou again held a slate under the
table, and before we had time to put a question, writing was heard. On Mr.
Eglinton's withdrawing the slate we read in the same handwriting: .. I do
like you." We asked, verbally again: "\Vhich of IlS do you like 1" "Both,"
in large letters, and three times underlined, was the immediate reply. "Why
do you like DB both 1" we asked. .. Because you are so kind and sympa-
thetic." We thanked "Joey" for the compliment he paid us, and asked
whether, asa further mark of favour, he would be good enough to write for
us on a alate that should have no contact with the medium. To this" Joey"
replied, "I will do 80 BOme time, but not to-day. Good-bye."
Whether" Joey" will be true to his word we have yet to prove. Mr.
E6linton tells ns that he seldom fails to fulfil any promise once given.
JB88IB H. SYKONB.
A-M.L-.
October 20th, 1885.
On Thursday, October 15th, 1885, Mrs. L. and I again sat with Mr.
Eglinton for alate-writing. We first requested that the coins might if
pouible be removed from my sealed box,but as after more thanlhalf an hour
this request had not been complied with, we thought it advisable to propose
another teat. For this purpose Mrs. L. took a visiting card out of her card-
case, which ahe marked, unaeen by Mr. Eglinton. This we placed between
the pages of a book, taken from the bookcase behind DB, adding .. small bit
..f chalk, which we had brou~ht with DB, and which was likewise marked.
Mr. Eglinton held the book under the table, and I asked that the word
•• watch" might be written on the cam. I wrote this request on a slate
which I showed to Mrs. L., but not to Mr. Eglinton ; this slate remained at
first on the table, but was afterwards held by Mr. Eglinton under the table
with the book. After about a quarter of an hour, during which time the
medium appeared to be in great pain, he lifted the book, and we proposed
• inspecting it; on doing 80 we found that one stroke had been made nearly
halfway acroaa the card,-a broad steady stroke, not in the least as though
the chalk had rolled-and there was an indistinct scribble in one comer,
which on close mapection looks 80mething like a man Beated on a mound I
The nib of chalk was however gone. It is possible that it dropped out of
the book during Mr. Eglinton's writhinga; it certainly did not do 80 when
the book was carefully opened on the table, neither were we able to find it
anywhere on the fioor. During this time Mr. Eglinton's thumb, and the
eomer of the book had been always visible. We cut off and marked another
.mall bit of chalk, which with the card wa1ugain placed by us between the
leaves of the book, and the book was held again by Mr. Eglinton under the
table After another q11&l't9r of an hour Mr. Eglinton again gave us the
Digitized by Google
310 Journall!f Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [JuDe, 18.."6.
book; he said he could bear the strain no longer, that the power that
morning had been very strong, but that for some reason unknown to
him, he feared our test had not succeeded, as the usual three rape had not
been given. We opened the book, and fuund besides several scribbles theletter
"w," and a little apart from it, what looked like a badly formed" w." A
little further on was apparently a second attempt at a "w." Tho
Cllalk was crushed to atoms; this was probably caused by Mr. Eglinton himself,
who during his writhings had supported the book with his whole hand, his
wrist only being visible, and who had appeared to press the book very
violently against the table.
From notes taken immediately after the sitting.
JB&'UB H. SYMONS.
A--M. L-.
October 9th, 1885.
On Thursday, October 8th, 1885, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood and I ast with
Mr. Eglinton at his rooms for slate·writing. Mr. Wedgwood had taken with
him 20 playing cards, selected out of an ordinary pack, from the aco up
to the five of the four suits. Out of this pack Mr. Wedgwood selected three
at random, and without looking at them, or showing them either to Mr.
Eglinton or to me, placed them face downwards on Mr. Eglinton's locked
slate, asking that both suit and number of the cards chosen might be written,
a black card to be written with blue chalk, and a rM. one with yellow. :Mr.
Eglinton then placed in the slate two coloured nibs of chalk, snapped it to,
and left it on the table, whilst, holding another smaller slate under the table,
he commenced the seance by asking whether our wishes with respect to the
cards could be complied with. For some 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour
there was no reply whatever, and the day being a dull, murky one, Mr.
Eglinton told us he feared that we should probably get no result at all.
However, it was not long after this that we heard the sound of writing, and
on the slate being slowly withdrawn from under the table, we read tIle
message "we will try " written as usual in re,·erse to Mr, Eglinton, and on
the end of the slate furthest from him. This being so far satisfactory, Mr.
Eglinton next held the locked slate under the table, but being, I suppose,
heavy, he let it drop from his hand to the floor. On picking it up he opened
it, but no writing had come. He. then held one of the smaller Blates again
under the table, and asked whether there waa any chance of the test succeed-
ing. "Patience" was the almost immediate reply. At this point Mr.
Eglinton again opened the locked slate, and I satisfied myself by slightly
moving the cards (though, I need hardly say, without turning them up) that
there was then no writing on either side of the slate. From this time up to
the moment when we next heard writing, the slate was never out of our sight
for an instant, nor was it once re~oved from the table; in fact, Mr. Eglinton's
hand and mine rested on it throughout. We had sat thus perhaps 10
minutes, when we heard the BOund of writing, succeeded by the usual three
raps. Mr. Eglinton pushed the slate slightly towards me, he turned the key.
and I opened the slate mYSl'lf ; the writing was found under the cards, which
were Btilllying with their backs towards us. The numbers and suits written
gitized by (.oogI
June, 1886.] Journal 0/'Society for P8ycllical Re8earc"•. 31I
were in all three C88e8 correct, and our willhes as to blue chalk for a black
card, and yellow for a red. had been equally complied with. I then asked
whether another test I wished to try, namely of removing BOme coins from a
Iealed box without opening it. would be likely to Ilucceed. I do not remember
the exact words of the reply, but I know that it was expreBBive of goodwill
for the test at BOme future seance. With thill, our sitting for that day ended.
JESSIE B. SYMONS.
H. WBOOWOOD.
31, Queen Ann Streot.
OcWler 8th, 1885.
DBAR MM. SIOOWIcx,-I am thilI moment returned from Mr. Eglinton's,.
and though one piece of evidence ill pretty nearly as good as another yet; in
this case there' were a pair of very sharp eyes in addition to mino. I had
taken the 20 lowest cards with me, and after shu1Bing them with their
backs to me, dealt out three which were of course absolutely unknown to.
Mr. Eglinton, Miss Symons or me. These were put into the locked elates with
their face down, together with a piece of lillht red or yellow and of blu&
chalk, requesting that the names of the cards might be written in appropriate-
coloul'll, taking blue for black. After a good while, Mr. EgUnton put down an
open elate asking if it was any use going on. The answer came up, •• Patience,'"
80 we went on and preeentlyheard the BOund of writing. Mr. EgUnton then put
the slates before Miss Symons,who sat next him,and putting in the key,which.
had been all the time on the table before me, he unlocked the box, not.
opening it at all. Min Symons opened tho elates, when we sawwritten, •• Ace
of HeartB " in yellow chalk, and" Ace of Spadee " and "Twoof Spades " in
blue chalk, which were the cards really there. There was no possible room for
sleight of hand, as the frame was locked all the while that it was in Mr.
Eglinton'e hands; nor could it have been got from our unconscions selves.
(if there ill any sense in such an expreBBion), because we never knew what
the cards were until the frame was opened at the conclusion. It seemB to
me a conclueive test of the presence of an extraneoUB intelligence with the
power of writing in a closed receptac1e.-Yours very truly,
H. WBDGWOOD.
P.S.-I should have mentioned that twice in the course of waiting for the
writing, Mr. Eglinton brought up the frallle and opened it before UB, looking
for writing; but in neither case was any of the cards turned face upwards,.
and the key in each case laid on the table before UI.
31, Queen AIm Street.
Ocf<Jber 15t1&.
DEAR MM. SlooWIcK,-In my account of the experiment with cards which
I IOnt to you, I laid that Mr. Eglinton opened the frame twice in the course·
of the sitting to lOe whether anything was written, but on seeing Miss
Symone' account and talking the matterover with Mr. EgUnton, I am satiafied
that it was only once, and allO that the slates were lying before UI on the
table when we heard the writing done.-Yours very truly,
H. WEDGWOOD.
Digitized by Google
.312 Journalqf Socilliy.for Psychical Research. [June, 1886.
October 28th, 1885.
This sitting was again with Mr. Wedgwood and myself. The object of
'Our visit wAlIa desire on Mr. Wedg-oVood's part to obtain writing on the inner
aide of two of his own slates, which he had most securely fastened together
with adhesive paper and sealing-wax; or, f&ili.ng this teat, a requeat that a
sixpenny-piece or 0. visiting card might be paased between the alates without
ruty visible removal of paper or sealing-wax.
Mr. Wedgwood began the sMnce by writing a question on an ordinary
alate, to which he very speedily received a satisfactory reply. I did not;
know the question asked; neither, to the beat of my belief, could it have
heen seen by Mr. Eglinton, who at onc;, put theslate under the table, where
it remained until the answer was received.
After this we turned our attention to the teat for which we had really
eome. The double slate was placed on the table, with the coin and card
underneath. Mr. Eglinton's hand and mine rested on the slate. We waited
<Iuite threo-quarters-of-an-hour, hoping thla wonderful feat might be per-
formed! but 110 sound of writing was heard, and no coin dropped through
the alate. As time was rapidly paasing, Mr. Eglinton took up one of his
own alates-an ordinary lingle one-from the table, held it underneath, and
asked whether there was any poB8ibility of the test being complied with.
Again we waited, and still there was no sound of writing; upon which I re-
marked that I feared my influence to-day was not a good one, orthat ••Joey ..
110 longer liked me. This remark was made ttilillt Mr. Eglinton wat holding
the alate under the table, and it had notonce been removed from this position
when the first sound of writing was heard. I was sitting next Mr. Eglinton; I
'had the whole time been able to see the two comers ofthe slate, one on each
side of the table. I noticed, too, that he supported the slate with his fingers
only; I could see his wrist. thumb, and the palm of his hand thrQtcg1aout.
The melBage was in reply to my previous remark, .. I DO like you, Joey."
The writing was indistinct, and there was some discu.ion as to whether the
second word was .. do" or .. did." Mr. Eglinton said it could be euily
settled by aaking to have the meBBage re·written. Almost as BOOn as the
alate was put under the table came the answer, "Of course I like you; wlay
should you think that I do not 7" Mr. Wedgwood said he had another ques-
tion to ask. Mr. Eglinton again placed the alate under the table, and Mr.
Wedgwood asked whether the power would everbe streng enough to write on
his closed slates. In reply he was told "Yes, but not to-day." We aaked "Why
not to-day 7" to which we received only the laconic reply, .. I cannot," and
then a little lower down on ~e alate, .. Good·bye, dear Mias S."
Mr. Wedgwood adds :-
JESSIE B. SYJlONB.
H. WBDGWOOD.
I am quite certain that Mr. Eglinton did not see the queation which I
wrote on the slate at the commencement, and never turned up the aide on
which it was written. The pertinent answer came on the upper aide.
H. W.
No~ 15th, 1885.
On Saturday, November 14th, 1885, :Mr. Wedgwood and I again sat with
l'Ilr. Eglillton for slate-writing.
Digitized by Google
JUDe, 1886.] Journal of Society/or P8]/cMcal Re8earch.
Mr. Wedgwood commenced the sitting by asking whether the ,. controls "
would be able to-day to~give us lOme striking proof of t.heir presence, and of
their power. The question was written on a slate of Mr. Eglinton's-we had
Dot brought any ; it was not seen until,after the answer had been received,
by either Mr. Eglinton or by me. It was handed to the fonner with the clean
aide UppennOlt, was at once held under the table, and was removed once,
befON the auawer came, for a few seconds only, and placed <m the table with
the clean side towards us, when Mr. Eglinton bomplained of his hand having
become very cramped. I am certain that by no possible meaua could he have
obtained 80 much as a glance at the written question. It was rather more
than 20 minutes before we heard the lOund of writing ; the answer was to the '
following e1fect, "Ask what. you will, and we will do our beat." Mr.
Wedgwood had brought with him his -ted slates, and he next asked
whether they would be able to write on, or transmit an object through these
same slates. Although the answer was sufficiently satiafa.ctolY, .. We will
try," Mr. Wedgwood was unwilling to risk another .nce on a test which
baa 80 often failed; he therefore chose instead to take oft' his watch, the
Dumber of which he asked to have written on a piece of paper, which Mr.
Eglinton gummed to a slate, and on which the watch was also lying. At this
titpe, and until the writing came, Mr. Eglintoll's thumb, a part of the palm
of his hand, and his wrist were visible to us both ; he kept very still, being
anxious, he said, Dot to jerk the watch. Under these conditions writing was
produced on the paper. We looked at it, 11oping to see the figures we had
asked for, but found instead, .. We cannot do it," written with a nib of blue
chalk which we had placed on the paper.
Mr. Eglinton then produced a box from a cupboard, made of dark red glass,
which he told us had been brought him by lOme one who had hoped by this
means to lee the writing come. The bottom ofthis box is a alate; there are four
wooden supports at the four corners, into which the glass aides slip; there is
a glass top, and a wooden frame which keeps the whole securely together. and
which must be removed, together with the glass lid, before it would be
poaaible, apparently, to write on the inner surface of the slate. The box is,
I should say, about 8 or 9 inches long, and balf-a-foot deep. Into this we
dropped a bit of pencil,' then putting the box together, we left it on the
table, whilst we turned to the locked slate; into this I placed a sixpenny
piece, a visiting card-both marked-and a bit of pencil. I pressed the slate to,
Mr. Wedgwood took the key, and Mr. Eglinton got us a bit of adhesh'e
paper, which I initialed, and he fastened ac1'088 the <'pening of the double
alate. Mr. Wedgwood and I l'xanIined it closely, and we satisfied ourselves
tha~ it was entirely secure, even supposing that Mr. Eglinton had a 18COnd key,
and was able to use it without detection. This slate was left on the table,
Mr. Eglinton's and my hand resting on it, whilst Mr. Eglinton held the glass
box under the table, and we asked that the coin or card might be trans-
mitted from the slate to the box; or, failing this, that we might simply have
writing on either. Slate and box remained in this position for lOme
time; we heard no lOund of writing, nor any movement of objects.
It was proposed, however, by one of UII, that we should just Bee whether
anything had occurred; the box was opened, and we found nothing
had takon place, beyond the nib of pencil having slipped, probably,
u
Digitized by Google
314 Journnl qf Sooiet!l/or P8!lchiMl RelJearch. [JuDe, 1886.
from the alate to the framework round the bottom. I put in
my' hand, and replaced it on the centre of the alate. I merely
mention this to show how aure I am that there was nothing elae in
the box at that moment. I CQtIld not have looked in, attended to, and moved
the pencil, without leeing a lixpenny piect', or a visiting card had either been
there. We had been with Mr. Eglinton a full hour; it was then 3.20 and
he told us he had to catch a train at Waterlco at 4.30; he therefore appeared
naturally anxioul that we should go i however, at Mr. Wedgwood's request
he said he would give UI 10 minutes longer, should we be told that there was
any use in continuing the seance. To ascertain this he took up an ordinary
aingle slate from the table, and asked if they could do anything more to-day.
" Yes," was written at on",. Mr. Eglinton looked at the clock, threw the
alate down on the table, and looked more than ever anxious to get rid of us.
However, he put the glaaa box again under the table, and asked me to help
him hold it. I did 10, pre8ling it firmly againlt the table, 10 that I am
ablOlutely certain the top could not have been removed. The closed elate
had not been touched at all i Mr. Eglinton'a arm waa resting on it merely.
A few minutes after I had been holding the box, I heard lOme faint taps, to
which I called Mr. Eglinton'l attention i he fancied he heard them too, and
asked if there was anything to communicate. Three raps in reply. "Have
you tranaftlrred the coin from the alate to the box Y" One rap in reply.
" Have you written on either alate or box YII A single rap again in anaw8r.
"Have you done anything' .. Three decisive raps. So we placed the box
on the table-about the centre of the table-within reach of Mr. Eglinton.
certainly, but 10 that he must have atretched out his hand to touch it. We
first opened the locked alatea i the initialed paper remained, of course, intact,
for the alates had not once heen mo.,ed. We cut through the adhesive paper,
Mr. Eglinton turned the key, and r opened the slate, exposingto view the six-
penny piece, and the bit of pencil i but the card had altogether disappeared!
Next we opened the glaaa box i there was the pencil-and--the marked card ;
I could only gaze in Ipeechleaa wonder I I had heard not a lOund. I had,
but a couple of minUtel before, seen the glaaa box empty, save for the crumb
of pencil i had seen card, coin and pencil placed in the locked alate i had
fastened it myself, tohiUt Mr. EglintoJl tca3 "IO/Jy flJO',. ",- having turned to
the writing table to look for adhesive paper.
Whilat I sat wondaring, Mr. Eglinton said, " We will just ask if they have
anything more to say before you go," and held a slate under the table. The
BOund of writing was very quickly heard, and continued for lOme seconds. I
was prepared for a longer meaaage than uaual, but totally unprepared for
seeing the alate entirely coured with writing. The meaaage was in
" Earnest's" handwriting, commencing: "My dear Madam,"and was to the
effect that having witneaaed sU'lh a "striking manifestation " of their power.
one could not doubt but that Spiritualism must before very long be univeraally
received as true, &C. I wish to say that I did not, in t,his case, take the alate
in my haud, and absolutely convince myself that there was no writing on
either lide of it before it was held under the table, but I certainly satD none
as Mr. Eglinton took it up. It WM, I must say also. to the best of my belief,
one of the two slates which we had uaed throughout the seance, on which
questions had leveral times been asked, and which I had prerioluly aaaured
Digitized by Google
Jone, 1886.] Journal qf Society for PSl/chical Research. 315
myself were clean, though I did not especially observe at this particular
mombnt. I am sorry, too, that I did not note in how many seconds the
message of 83 words was written; I can only say that it took place in a
much shorter space than could possibly have been done by any crdinary
means. I should think in from half to three-quarters of a minute at the
outside.
Another slate was now held under the table-the same (In which we had
previously put the watch, and which I am absolutely certain was clean on
both sides-in case there should be anything further to communicate. In
this case, as before, the writing came almost immediately, "Good-bye, dear
Miss Symonds, I will try your box some day." This was no doubt in
reference to a previous remark of mine, that after having witnessed their
power to transmit a card from a slate into a closed box, I did not despair
of their being ultimately able to remove one, or all, of my coins from the
aealed box in which I have placed them.
JESSIE H. SnlONR.
H. WEDGWOOD.
Descriptions by Mr.Wedgwood of the following seanceaha.ve already
appeared in print, but on a.ccount of the imporhnee he a.tta.ehes to the
evidence conta.ined in them we reprint them.
31, Queen Ann Street.
September Zlth, 1885.
DEAR MR. GORNEY,-As mention has been made in our papers of
aittings held by several members of the Society for Psychical Research with
Mr. Eglinton, I think it may not be out of place to make known to the
Society, as concisely as possible, a few instances in which I have had the
most signallluccess with him, while in other cases I have failed four or five
times in lIuccession to obtain a repetition of the phenomena under precisely
the same conditions. Mr. Eglinton offers as good a subject for psychical
experiment as it is possible to conceive. He operates in full light, sitting at
the same table with you, while you hold one of his hands, and never
entirely lose sight of the other. If you distrust your own acuteness you
may bring any witness you please to sit by and watch the game. Under
these circumstances things are done apparently beyond the limits of physical
possibility, and inexplicable by anything short of a temporary hallucination
~f the spectators.
The nrst case I will mention was when Mr. Eglinton was !ttaying with Dr.
)jichols in Road. I had tied two new slatel firmly together,
sealing them on the six points where the string crossed the edges of the
slates. I then took them to Mr. Eglinton's and failed to get any writing upon
them. Some months afterwards I took the slates as they were and fastened
gummed paper round the edges, so as to close the inside hermetically.
:\1r. E~linton and I sat alone under the gaslight with a low flame, holding our
four hands on the slates lying flat on the table before us. I observed to the
Medium the strange amount of effort the experiment seemed to cost him,
testified by groans and convulsive movements of the arms. After a whilo I
began to hear the unmistakable sound of slate-writing, proceeding without
U 2
gitized by (.oogI
316 Journtll ~f Societ!lfor P8yeltical Restore". [JUDe, 1880.
doubt from the slates beneath our hands, as was easy to perceh·e on bending
down the ear to them and removing it again. The writing continued fer a:
long time, and when tbe BlateB were opened it was found that they were
covered with writing in three or four different hands, one of the meuages.
seeming to answer my observation on the painful exertion of thll Medium.
"We have managed to do what you wished," the passage ran, "but with
great streBl on the Medium."
I next sat with Mr. Eglinton, when first he came to Quebec Street, with
a party of seven or eight. We had a good light from a Bingle burner over-
head. I sat next the Medium, holding his left hand. He gave me a blank.
card, from which I tore off a comer, and put it in my pocket. The card.
together with a fragment of black lead, WIUI then put inside a book, which
was placed under the hand of Mr. Eglinton's next neighbour on the right,
but as no SignB of action were given after a while he took the book away-
and gave it to me. I laid it on the table and he and I held our hands upon.
it. By-and-by the little Bingle taps were heard, and on opening the book I
found a letter addr8l'sed to me in a hand well known to me, written
upon the very card which I had placed blank in the book a few minutes
before. There could be no deception about the card, as it exactly fitted the
tom-off comer I had kept in my pocket. as' can be seen by the original still
in my posses8ion.. The only pOBlible escape is to suppose that Eglinton
could surreptitiously have taken the card out of the book under eight pair
of eyeB and written upon it a letter of two or three linea in a very marked
hand as different from his own D.8 poBlible, and have replaced it in the book
under my hand, without being noticed by any of us. In the next experi-
ment there was no room for the supposition even of such an incredible pillCe of
sleight of hand as the above. The experiment was nlade with the aid of Mr_
Eglinton's celebrated pair of locked slates, which were made under the care·
ofan anxious inveatigatorfor thepurpo8e of eliminatingall poSIibility of fraud.
and presented by him to Mr. Eglinton. As soonas we had sat down Mr. Eglin-
ton handed mea blank cardon which I put my initialaand a small mark,when·
it was at once placed between the slates, which clo88 with a spring Bramah
lock. The l!lates were snapped together with the card inside, and the key-
given to me and put in my pocket. We then placed our hands upon the·
frame lyingflat 011 the table, and as BOOn as we had the usual notice that thlt
action was complete I unlocked the frame myself, ~d took out the card
without Eglinton seeing it, and on the same face on which I had put my
initials I found a drawing of a well-proportioned female figure in a floating
attitude, shaded so as to show the fore-shortened limbs.
. I sltall only mentien one more operation which took place last Thursday,
September 24th. I had been having a Bitting for materialisation with Mr.
Eglinton on the Tuesday evening, when the figure of an Arab came out, an(I
one of the ladies asking him for a bit of his drapery, I lent him an open
penknife to cut it off. He retreated with this into the cabinet, from whence
there came a voice familiar to me, blaming me for giving the Arab a
dangerous implement, and saying that they had dematelialised the knife.
which should however be restored to me on some future occasion. On
Thursday moming I went to Mr. Eglinton f('lr slate-writing, and when we'
aat down I explained that I wished for something interesting, an:! I Bug-
Digitized by Google
.JUDe, 1886.] Journal of Societu/or P8uchical Reserlrch. :U7
Bested either writing on a pair of closed slates which I brought with me, or
a drawing such 1\8 I had had before, or the restoration of my knife. We got
no answer at all for a long time, perhaps for half·an-hour or more, during
which Mr. Eglinton was subjected to much exertion. .At last someone
knocked at the door of the room, and Mr. Eglinton said he should be at
liberty in a few minutes, having evidently lost all hope of getting anything
at that sitting.
He then put his slate under the table, asking them to 8&y whether they
could do anything or not. I fully expected a negative :answer, but the
.Iate was immediately returned with a decisive "Yes." Upon this, Mr.
Eglinton gave me half a sheet of note paper on which I wrote my name.
It was then locked up in the closed frame and held under the table, some-
times by Eglinton alone, sometimes with my asaistance, I always having
bold of his left hand. When we had notice of the action being finished Mr.
Eglinton gave me the slates to unlock, and the lock being too stiff' for me,
he stretched his hand over and turned the key, but without opening the
&"l.tea, which he left for me to do. On opening the slates I found my lost
knife in the cavity, while the sheet of paper had disappeared. Mr. Eglinton
then asked what bad become of the lost paper, and was answered on the
alate, U Under the other slate," and accordingly we found it under a.slate
which had been lying on the table at Mr. Eglinton's back without being
touched during the whole of the sitting.
H. WBDOWOOD.
31, Queen Ann Street,
Marrl/, 221&d, 1886.
DEAR MB. MYEBS,-Your call for the communication of instances where
information of a fact unknown to any of the sitters has beon given by auto-
matic writing may perhaps best be met by examples of the experiment, so
often accomplished in the presence of Eglinton, where a book.is taken at
pleasure from the shelves by the investigating party, and the writing intelli-
gence is requ88ted to write upon the slate the word to be found in the book
at a place defined by page, line, and order in the line-as for instance the
word to be found at p. 51, line 17, fifth place in the line.
. However familiar the Medium may be with the book selected, it is im-
possible to suppose that he call carry in his head the knowledge of
the precise word occupying every definite position in the volume. And he
cannot have made any preparations beforehand, because he does not
kllQW which ofhis books will be selected, or whether the investigator may not
bring a book of his own for the purposo of the experiment. Thus it
will always be easy for the inveatigabr to make it morally certain that
the word asked for is unknown to any of the sitters, and if it is correctly
given on the slate, time after time, it would seem to afford as clear a proof as
can be given :>f the intervention of an intelligence with faculties of appre-
hension reaching further than those of anyone in bodily presence at the
experiment.
Now thill feat I have seen accomplished at three successive sittings with
)lr. Eglinton in the course of the last week.
On Tuesday, March 16th, Captain James and I had our first sitting.
Digitized by Google
318 Journal qf Society/or P8ychical Re8earch. [June. 1&;6.
He took with him a folding pair of slates, having on one side a raised ledge
all round the rim, locking into a slot in the opposite rim when the slates were
closed, making the introduction of any tool between the slates, in that condi-
tion, impouible. We arranged the numbers of page, line, and word to be
asked for by taking at a hazard three pinches of the pencil nibs that lay on the
table, and counting these the numbers came out page 43, line 8, fourth word
in the line. For the book Captain James went to the shelves and took down
" Alice in Wonderland." Eglinton then put nibs of three different colours
between Captain James' slates, requesting that the word occupying the
above-mentioned position in the book might be written on the slates in red.
We sat in the usual way at the comer of the table, Eglinton on one side
holding the slates with the book on them under the flap of the table with his
right hand, and with his left grasping the left hand of the sitter next him,
acl'088 the comer of the table, while the latter held both the hands of his
fellow-sitter with his right hand. At first I sat next to Eglinton, but as &
considerable time elapsed without any signs of writing, Eglinton suggested
that James and I should change places, and the table seemed to show its
approval of the change by much violent jumping about. Soon afterwards
Eglinton, finding his hand cramped by holding the slates so long under the
table, asked James to join with him in holding them; and befure putting
them beneath again he opened them to see whether anything was written,
when I saw that there was not. After this the slates were held by Eglinton
and James under the flap, and were not brought up again until the writing
was accomplished, 80 that it must have been done while James had hold of
the slates, and he avers that he held the closed slates the whole time up
against the flap in such a way as to make it inlpossible to write on them from
without in any way. After a while the sound of writing was heard, and the
'Iignal of accomplishment being given the slates were opened,when we saw the
word" ready," conspicuously written in red chalk, and found on examining
the book that this was really the word occupying the position indicated by
our figures.
When I came to think over this experiment I was afraid it might be said
that the Unconscious Self keeps undefaced among its stores pictures of every
scene which has passed before the eyes of the percipient in actual life, and
might refer to these as to an index to make out the word occupying any
definite position in the book, and prompt it to the writer.
So I endeavoured at our next sitting, on March 18th, to cut off any
pouible acceu to such an index by making use of a volume the contents of
which should be quite unknown to any of us until after the writing W88
accomplished. With my eyes allutI took down a volume from my sheh'as
and put. it in my pocket, and only after it was opened to verify the word
written on the slate was it found to be a little book on "Magic and Witch-
craft," 1852. I had doubtless looked at it when first bought, but had quite
forgotten it, and neither of the other two had ever heard of it. At the
sitting we proceeded exactly as before 1 except that Eglinton held one of
1 From a letter of Mr.Wedgwood, dated Mr.rch 18th,l886, it appears that thi.sstate.
ment includes the placing of tne book on the alate as in the firat experiment.-E.M.S.
Jal, 1886.] Journal QI Societyfor P8ychical Re88arch. 319
his own sIatea for the writing under the flap, instead of Captain James'.
After a while we heard writing &nd found the word "such " written on the
alate, which on examina.tion proved to be the word occupying the pl&ce in
the book indicated by our numbe1'8.
I still thought I might improve the evidence a little, and at our next sit-
ting on the 21st (the laat day of Eglinton'. atay in England), I choae a book
that I was pretty sure (&8 proved to be the caae) none of the party had
read, viz., "Peter Plymley's Letters." I alao took a large pair of folding
slates of my own, eleven inches by seven and &-half, to receive the writing.
Eglinton put nibs of three coloura within the slates, &nd having reqllested the
writing intelligence to write in yellow chalk the word to be found at page 24,
line 8, word 5, I tied the slates firmly together with a double turn of
strong twine. Eglinton then held the slates with the book on them under
the flap, all parties holding handa &8 before. We were a long time without
any signa of succeaa. At laat James &8ked if it would help matters if he were
to take hl)ld of the slates. The table aaaented with three loud bangs on the
floor, &nd after a little while my aid waa accepted in the same way. Shortly
after we all three had hold of the slates we heard writing going on, and tho
aigDal of completion being given the alates were brought up tightly bound
together with my twine, and on opening them we saw the word "wife"
written in yellow in a large bold h&nd. This proved to be the word at page 24.
line 8, &nd fifth pl&ce in the line.
Immediately afterwards [ made a note of the sitting substantially the aarne
as the above, which W&8 signed by Mr. Eglinton &nd Captain James.
•
H. WEDOWOOD.
The accounts of the Dext two seances have been sent to us by Ml".
E. T. Bennett, Member and Assistant Secr81i&ry of the Society.
Mr. George Rayleigh Vicars, and Mr. Ed·
ward T. Bennett at Mr. Eglinton's, November
21st, 1885. 3 p.m. Good daylight all through.
Sat at the ordinary table thus :-
E. T. B.'s right hand!
holding both Mr. V.'s
E. T. B.'s left hand above the table.
holding Mr. Eglinton's left
•
E.T.B.+
Mr.E.
+
+
G.R.V.
Mr. V. had brought his double locked slate, on one side of which the
word" No" had been written.
Mr. Eglinton held this alate with his right hand under the Hap of the table
at the comer between himself and E.T.B. No reeult, after a few minutes'
trial.
Mr. B. had brought two envelopes gummed &nd sealed. One given him
by Dr. Myers, inscribed thus: "Two pieces of paper are here enclosed, on
one of themare worda which I do not know, on the other are words that I
do know.-A. T. Myers, November 13th, 1885."
The other envelope, prepared, gummed,and lI8&led byE. T. B.
Mr. Eglinton examined the outsides of these envelopes.
Digitized by Google
320 Journal oj 80cidy for Psychical Buenrcll. [June, 1886.
E. T. B. cleaned two of Mr. Eglinton's slates with a damp sponge, and
chose a fragment of pencil, which he marked, the edges being unwom.
The two envelopes and the bit of pencil were placed on one of these two
slates,which Mr. Eglinton took and held undemeath the comer of the table.
The request was made that something that was inside the envelopes might be
written on the slate.
In a few minutes.a sound as of writing was heard. During this, hands
were being held as above,and the thumb of Mr. Eglinton's right hand, which
was bolding the slate, was visible above the table. On the writing ceasing,
and Mr. Eglintonwithdrawing the slate, the result was seen thus: i.e., the
writing was at the further end of the sl¥e.
.5 •
...S~
.2-S;1l
'e'§. ;
~j-•
..:;;
~!l~
Comer held (rc~'~~~~==========~'J.....
by Mr. E. + \I,
•
The bit of pencil was on the slate. It was the same bit of pencil, and
one end was wom smooth aa if with writing a fow werda.
[The envelope was not examined, being kep~ to be returned to Dr.
Myers unopened.]
Mr. V,. and Mr. B. now changed places at the table; hands being held in
a precisely silllila.r manner, It was agreed to ask a fow questiona relative
to the word" No" on.Mr. V.'s slate.
Mr. Eglinton held one of the two alates under the table as before.
Q. Waa the word ~ritten at Mr. Eglinton's1-" No."
Q. Was the word written by meaus of Mr. V.'s own mediumship 1-
"Yes."
It was aaked that these answera might be written inaide a circle just then
drawn on the slate. This was done.
The two slates, being seen to be quite clean, were thlln placed together,
with a bit of pencil between them; and the question aaked whether Mr. V.
would get any more writing himself. No result following immediately, Mr.
Eglinton drew the slatea from under the table and held them at arm's length
just at the back of Mr. V.'s neck. No result following immediately, and the
position being rather tiring, Mr. V. said, "You can rest them on my hestlif
you like." Almoat immediately the sound of writing was heard between the
slates. It is inconceivable to both llr.V.and llr. B. that there could be any
doubt as to the place from which the sound of the writing came. On its
ceasing and the slates being examined, at the end of the lower ODe farthost
from Mr. Eglinton,were the worda: "You will have other writing.Patience."
Digitized by Google
Jane, 1886.] Journal of Soeiet!! for P8!!chical Reuarch. . 321
A single alate was then held underneath the table; on the alate was placed
a bit of alate-pencil, a bit of blue chalk and bit of red chalk.
Q. Will you write in blue the name ofMr. V:..pirit guide 1
. A..1m08t immediately was written in blue ;-
"W. A. Forbes"
The second initial was not fJerY legible.
Mr. V. had previously said' that he did not know who his "spirit
guide" was, and no name, " Forbes .. or any other, was in his mind.
Upon this sentence being written, Mr. V. remarked; "W. A. Forbes
was the name of a student with whom I was intimate at St. John's, and who
has since lost his life on the Congo/'
Q. (By Mr. V.) Did I know him 1-" Yes, "
Q. .. " Was he at St. John's, Cambridge 7-" We don't know."
Q. .. .. Where did he die 1-" Don't know. "
Q. " .. Is he now doing this writing 1-" No."
Q. .. " Do you know anything about my late lathed "We do
DOt. Good bye. Continue to sit."
Q. (By Mr. Eglinton.) Shall Mr. V. continue to sit at home, and will
this sitting help in his development 1-" Yes. "
The sitting then terminated.
While the writing was going on, part of Mr. Eglinton'a thumb holding
the alate was alwaya visible, and generally the end of it was on the top of
the table. This was specially noticed.
The above is written from notes made during the seance.
EDWAJU) T. BBNNBTr.
NurJember 22l1d, 1885.
To the oo.t of my recollection, the above details are correct.
GBOlWB R. VICA.BS.
9, Lower Berkeley Street, Portman Square, W.
June 2nd, 1886.
At Mr. Bennett's request I fumiahed him on November 13th, 1885, with
a sealed envelope, in which were two small pieces of paperwith printed words
on them. They were wrapped in a sheet of blank writing paper. One, which
was about an inch square, I had tonl with shut eyes out of a second-
hand book-catalogue and folded up and put into the cover without seeing it,
and I knew none of the words printed on it. The other, which was much
smaller and had printed on it two words and three figures, I cut out of
another pamphlet. I took note of the words and figures, but took precaution,
with Mr. Bennett'a concurrence, that they should not come under his
observation, and bumt tho rest of the pamphlet. I leam from Mr. Bennett
that when this sealed envelope was brought forward at a atfance of Mr.
Eglinton's, on November 22nd, with the inquiry what words were printed
on the pieces of paper, a sentence was written as it appeared "psycho-
graphically," viz.; .. The word 'for' is on the print in Myers' envelope."
The sealed envelope was retumed to me unopened, and I found its contents
apparently unchangod; but the word .. for" was neither on the piece of paper
I had looked at previously, nor among the words (about 50 in number), on
the piece of paper I had not seen. A. T. MYBBS.
Digitized by Coogle
322 Journal oj &tiel!l for P'1lckical Reuarc'k. [.l1CUl, 1S86.
At Mr. Eglinlnn's, December 12th, 1885.
~r. George Rayleigh Vicars, Mr. T., Mr. Edward T. Bennett..
Fonr slates on the table :-Mr. Vicars' own double slate, with padlock; Hr.
Eglinlnn's double looked alate ; two ordinary lingle slates, belonging to Hr.
Eglinlnn,-and which latter were privately marked.
A aea.lat envelope containing writing, bruught by Mr. B., (the same one
that he brought In the .eance on the 2bt of November), wall placed on -
alate .nd held under the table by Mr. Eglinlnn, .nd the requeat made to get
ita contenta written on .the llate. After waiting for 30 minutes, and
ch.nging the poBition of the Bitten, no reault being obtained, the attempt
was ab.ndoned.
Queation asked: "Is there any power to-day 1" After a short interval
the word .. Yea" was written on the alate.
1
The party were now aitting thUl :-
1. Mr. Eglinlnn.
2. Mr. Vicars.
3. Mr. T.
4. Mr. Bennett. ·0
3 4
Mr. T. was asked In choose a bit of coloured crayon In place on the
alate. He selected a blue bit. He was asked to select a number to be
written. He chOie "47." Very shortly the sound of writing was heard on
the llate held by Mr. Eglinlnn under the table, and 011 ita ceaaing and the
alate being withdrawn, the figures .. 47" were seen to be writtell at tho
further end of the alate as held by Mr. Eglinton. Mr. Vicars was also
holding a alate at the Bame time. It was requeated that" forly-Ievell " ( in
worda) be written on thia.-No response. It was then luggeated that a watch
be placed on the alate, and that a requeat be made for ita number to be
written. There being lOme hesitation in trusting a watch, for fear of ita
being dropped or broken in the convuwve movementa which frequently
accomp.ny the writing, Mr. Bennett propOied that the retum half of his
railway ticket ahould be experimented with. He took the ticket out of his
pocket without looking at ita number, .nd being entirely ignor.nt of it, and
Mr. Vicars carefully placed it number downwards, inside Mr. Eglinton's
double alate, care being taken that no one BaW the number, .nd that the slate
was clean; a bit of yellow crayon being placed in the slate, it was closed and
locked. All this waa done by the 8itters, at the part of the table marked +.
Everyone present was abaolutely ignor.nt of the nllmber of the ticket. The
alate being then held in the UlUal way by Mr. Eglinlnn, it was requested
that the number of the ticket might be written. In a very ahort time the
sound of writing was heard. On ita ceasing. the alate was handed to Mr.
Turnbull for him to open. On his doing ao, clOie by the tickot the number
.. 1,921" was found written with the yellow crayon in a good, bold, Itrong
hand. The ticket was then taken up, and ita number, on the under aide,
was lCell ro be 1,921.
Mr. Vicars and Mr. T. then changed plaCeBo Mr. Vicars' double
Digitized by Google
June, l886.] Journal oj Societu.for P'!lchical Research.
alate was placed on the table, Mr. Eglinton also holding a slate underneath.
Q. Will you give us some writing on Mr. Vicars' slates 1
A. "If we can," written on the alate held by Mr. Eglinton.
Q. Did Mr. Vicars write the word" No" on his own alate 1
A. "NO," in large bold letters at the extreme end of the slate held by
Mr. Eglinton.
Some further time WIUI spent in waiting for writing on Mr. Vicars' alate.
but without result; and the sitting terminated.
The alates on which the writing appeared were ide.tified by the privat&
marks sa the same aa those which were on the table at the commencement.
MBlIL-It will be noticed that the "47" experiment eliminates any
theory of the writing being the result of chemical preparation on the alate.
It will also be observed that the ticket experiment eliminates thought-
reading or telepathy, it being absolutely certain that the number was un·
known to all present [aa far aa I know.-R. T.].
Mr. Bennett adds on June 14th, 1886, that the above waa written from
note8 made during the sdance.
EDWARD T. BENlfBTT.
R. T.
GEORGE RAYLEIGH VIOARS.
We are indebted to Mr. F. W. Bentall, Member of the Society, fo...
the next report.
PSYCHOGRAPHIC ExPBRIENCES WITH MR. EGLIKTON.
Having determined early in 1885 toJ-nvestigate psychography in company
with a friend, Mr. F. W. Frost (whom I shall hereafter call F.), I arranged
for a aeries of six sittings with Mr. Eglinton(whom I shall hereafter call E.).
As very imperfect notes were taken of these tirat experiments I am unable to
lay the date of their occurrence. At the appointed hours we went to E.'a
addre81 in Langham Place, taking with us two closed slates of peculiar con-
atruction in which we wished to obtain writing. Our aittings with E. have
been in full daylight with two exceptions, when gsa wsa used. On these
occuions however no manifestations took place. We tolOk ourseata at a small
unvarnished Pembroke table which we examined closely, but without noticing
any unusual feature about it. F. sat nextE. at his right hand, at right angles
to him. and I next F. Four aittinga with our closed slates being unsucce8l-
ful, we determined on the fifth occaaion to abandon this experiment for a.
time and try for results in the ordinary way. Accordingly I marked one of
E.'s clean slates on one side, and E., after placing a small piece of alate pencil
on it, held it with the marked side uppermost under the flap of the table with
his right hand, his thumb appearing above the table. He then placed his left
hand on F.'s left hand, F.'s right hand being held in both mine. This is the
ordinary mode of obtaining phenomena and will hereafter be referred to a&
"the usual way." In this particular instance F.'s left hand aaaisted to hold
the alate up to the table. This however is not customary. When the alate
was in position I requested that the word" Heybridge " should be written on
the marked side of the alate. E. soon after became lomewhat convulsed and
breathed heavily. We then heard a scratching sound apparently on the slate.
Digitized by Google
;324 Journalo/ Society/or P8!1chical Re8earch. [Jane, lS86.
"fhis waa succeeded by three taps, the usual signal to aignify that the writing
ia accompliahed, and on E. and F. withdrawing the slate from under the table
thp word .. Haybridge It appeared written upon the marked surface, the
pencil resting on the laat atroke of the finale. The writing was upside
down in relation to E.'s position at the table, and at the end of the alate
farthest from him. It is worthy of note that this word, the correct spelling
~f which waa well known to both F. and myaelf, waa rendered phonetically on
the alate. The next sitting, we obtained written in the usual way, in answer
to a question aa to the probability of getting writing in our closed slates, the
following communication. •• We much fear you do not sufficiently appreciate
the difficulties under which we are labouring to produce the results wished by
you. \Ve have to practically conform to the conditions laid down by yonr-
aehes, instead of your allowing the phenomona to develop in the manner to
which we are accustomed. Painful aa our efforts to vanquish difficulties may
be to our medium, we intend to paraevere, and you will be pleased to knoW'.
are conlident of SIlCJ8I1. But this me~hod of approaching this great subject
is all wrong; h"wever much you may think you are right." .. Ernest." •• We
think you had best not si~ any longer to-day."
After sitting at various intervals with but little success, we made
arra,ngament~ for a seriea of sittings which were held at 6, Nottingham
Place, with the following results, which are recounted from notea made
after each sitting.
Friday, May 8th, 1885. We took with us a slate securely coverei
with a sheet of glaas, and containing between the two aurfaces a small
piece of chalk. Our object waa to get writing on the slate which could be
read through the glau. Besides this slate we also brought two ordinary
slates. We invariably took away our alates at the close of each Bitting, and
we furthermore used our own chalks and penciLJ. After Bitting lOme time
with this closed alate with no result, we suggested that we might perhaps
get writing between our other two slate~. These I took out of their case
.and placed on the table. Between them I put a small square piece of alate-
pencil newly fractured at each end, and then banded them to E., who
took them by one corner in his right hand, F. holding the opposite comer
in his left hand. E. then placed his left band on F.'s left, and F.'s hand
I held in both mine. I then asked why our closed slates could not be
written in. A scratching, apparently between ~he slates, waa soon heard,
.followed by three taps. E. a.t once removed his hands, and F. laid the
slates on the table. On removing the top slate we found the worda .. There
is no power It written on the upper sunace of the bottom slate under where
F.'s thumb had been. The slates were held above the table in full view
all the time, and the pencil waa abraded at one corner aa if with writing.
Saturday, }fay 9th.-oNo results.
Monday, May llth.-No results. After leaving the sitting we unfortu-
nately lost the caae containing all our slates.
Tuesday, May 12th.-Our slates being lost we determined to experiment
with E.'s. We proposed to try the experiment of getting writing under a
tumbler placed on a slate. E. accordingly procured a plain glaas tumbler
which we inverted over a piece of pencil on a cloan alate. E. then held the
alate under the table ,vitll his right hand, and we took up our usual poai-
Digitized by Google
JIID8, 1886.J JOIlrnal qf Society for P8!lcllical Reuarch. 325
tiODll, E.'aleft hand being on F.'a. I then 88ked that a triangle might be-
drawn underneath the tumbler. We soon heard scratching, and both sud-
denlylooked under the table thinking we might see the pencil in motion.
F. 88W it fall directly he looked at it, I 88W nothing on account of the light
shining on the surface of the glaaa. On raising our heads the scratching re-
commenced and finished with three tapa. E. then lifted the alate on to the-
table, and underneath the tumbler we saw the figure of a triangle. In the-
centre of one aide W88 a break in the line as if the atroke had been inter-
rupted. The pencil, which W88 freshly broken at each end when the experi-
ment commenced, W88 found abraded atone of the angles 88 if with writing.
We then 88ked a question ... to the reason of the difficulty in writing in our-
cloaed alate. To get an answer I put a piece of slate pencil and a piece or
red chalk on a clean slate, and requested that the answer might be written in
.lines of altcrnate colour. The uaual positions were then taken, and the
fonowing answer W88 obtained: "We find that" (inred) "the primary diffi-
culty" (in alate pencil) "ia the wantof magnetism inside the closed space" (in
red). On 88king whether we should have our alate magnetiaed the answer-
waa given in the usual way, •• It will certainly leasen the difficulty." E. then
suggested the following experiment: F. went to the bookcaae and took out
a boOkat random. This he plsced without looking at it, together with a
piece of slate pencil on a clean alate held by E. underneath the table. 1
then made a verbal request, at the same time writing it on a alate. " Please
write the laat word of the third line on the fifty.first page of the book under
the table," and at E.'a auggestion also 88ked that the name of
the book migh~ be alao written. The word, line, and page, I put down
ac 1 happened to think of them at the time, after the book W88 under-
the table. This second slate W88 placed above the book and we then took
np our usual positions, F. holding the alates as well 88 E. 88 in our first
experiment. We soon heard the scratching and the tapa. E. and F. then
lifted the alates and book on to the table,and round the book W88 written on
the three aides of the lower alate farthest from E., "Queeniea Whim, line 51,
page 3 lip-we mean p. 51, line 3, 188t word lip."I took .the book and verified
the quotation.
Wednesday, May 13th. We hrought with us a sealed envelope containing
a paMr on which certain worda had been written by a third person, we not
knowing what they were. This we put with a piece of pencil between two
of E.'a clean slates on the table, and 1 then took E.'s Bramah locked book
alate and wrote in it the following question, taking care that E. should not;
see what W88 written: "Will you kindly copy the figure below" (I had drawn
a croaa on the alate under tlLe question) "between the alates held by Mr.
Eglinton" (those containing the envelope), .. or better atill write the words
on the paper inside the envelope on one of these alates 7.. 1 then locked the
alate and kept the key in my hand. We sat in our usual order, E. sometimes
holding the locked slate above or below the table, sometimes the other two
slates. His left hand was always in F.'s custody. Finally he put all the
alates in a pile on the table, the locked slate being uppermost. We thell
asked in the usual way with another alate whether we should get what we
were trying for. An answer came but in telegraphic cipher. We asked for
a plainer reply, and got on the samulate the word " Wait." E. then placed
Digitized by Google
826 Joltrnal ~f Societ!l/or PS.tJchical Research. [April,18811.
his right hand on the pile of slates and became strongly convulsed. The
scratching sound and the taps were soon heard, apparently proceeding from
the slates on the table. I then took up the book slate and waited before
unlocking it to see if anything were written between the other two. On
lifting the uppermost of these two slates, we saw that the envelope had.
disappeared, and that the crou was copied on the bottom slate. I then
unlocked the book slate and found therein the envelope which had been put
between the other two slates. We then inquired what might be the meaning
of the telegraphic cipher and received an answer in the usual way: " It is of
no consequence, you have now had the J>&BS&Se of matter through matter.
Good-bye." We took away the slate witll the cipher on it at the end of the
sitting, and were afterwards informed by a telegraph clerk that it W88 written
in the Morse cipher, and that though a sentence or two could be made out,
lnuch was indistinct..
Thursday, May 14th. No results. This day we had a new gl&88-oovered
slate which had been made to replace the one we lost.. We had it magnetised
by a prof888ional mesmerist before this, and every subsequent sitting.
Friday, May 15th. In answer to a question anent the probability of
getting writing in our closed slate there was written in the usual way: .. We
-can not to-day."
Saturday, May 16th. In answer to an inquiry as to the efl'ect of the
magnetising, we. received the following communication in the usual way:
.., Our position is now much improved. Good-bye."
Tuesday, May 19th. Query as to whether matters had improved was
answered in the usual way, "Yes."
Wednesday, May 20th. No results.
Thursday, May 21st. We inquired whether we could &88ist the power in
.any way, and were answered in the usual manner: "You can only go on
sitting, we do the best we can.II
Friday, May 22nd. No results.
Saturday, May 23rd. No results.
Wednesday, May 27th. No results.
Thursday, Ma.y 28th. In answer to a query as to whether another sitter
'Would be beneficial, a reply was given in the usual way: "She will do."
And in reply to a request for information on the subject of our teat, we got
the following message, also in the usual manner :_
" We must beg you not to believe that it is not f~m want of inclination
-or desire to help accompliah the writing in your novel alate that we hue
hitherto failed. You do not understand, still 1888 comprehend, the difficul-
ties under which we labour in this respect, for &B8uredly you must bolie\"8
that all our energy is concentrated upon the wished for result.. It is a
trifling matter to write in this manner compared to the task you have set us,
for whereas we have no difficulty in directing the power to write upon this
slate, it is not 10 with your own, for the reason that the vital fluid, call it
what you may, cannot be retained sufficiently long in tho enclosed apace to
enable us to move the pencil with force enough to make an intelligent mark.
Weare not desparing that sooner or later we ahall produce the result, the
help given us by the magnetisiug of the slate having at one or two sittings
almost been the means of making the writing a fait accompli. Our anxiety
Digitized by Google
JaDe, 1886.J Journal of Societ.'I for P8!lchical Re8earcla. 327
to succeed is perhaps even keener than your own, BI we have previously
convinced you of our power and identity.-Your friend EB.NB8T."
Friday, May 29th. Although we had another sitter no results were
obtained.
Saturday, May 30th. The same sitters were present, and various ques-
tions were BIked and answered in the usual way.
Monday, June lat. The aamesitters being present, on asking whether
we should get our teat at this sitting we were answered "No" in the usual
way. In answer to a further inquiry if some other teat could be suggested
that would be BI convincing to us, and more easily accomplished, we were
answered in the usual manner, .. We will help you all we can, but willleave
it to you."
·We have had a few sittings since with aalate covered with wire gauze
instead of glau, but have been unBucceaaful.
The sittings luted from an hour to an hour and a-half, and we have
noticed that after a sitting at which phenomena have been obtained, Eglinton
appeared to suffer from exhaustion in proportion generally to the results,
although unaucceaaful efforts sometimes produced a similar effect. Wet
weather appeared to exert a decidedly unfllovoul.'lloble effect upon the
philnomena.
F. W. BENTALL,
Member of the Society for Psychical Reaearch.
I testify that the foregoing account is substantially correct.
F. W. FBOST.
3. Union Court, Old Broad Street, London, E.C.
Besides the above records we have received information from
various people of perfectly blank st!a.nces with Mr. Eglinton. My own
experience, in the three seances I have had with him, and that of several
of my friends, is entirely of this kind.
The last report I shall give is that of a gentleman well known as
an amateur conjurer under the name of Professor Hoffmann. At the
request of one or two members of the Society who were interested in
haling the investigation conducted in what appeared to them a scientifio
manner, he kindly consented to hold with Mr. Eglinton a series of
seances and to report on the result. The report would doubtless have
been more instructive had Professor Hoffmann's positive experiences
-extended beyond a single inconclusive phenomenon in a bad light, but
at the same time we think it is deserving of consideration by anyone
desiring to form an impartial judgment on the whole case.
Report of 10 sittings held with Mr. W. Eglinton at 6, Nottingham
Place, by Angelo J. Lewis (" Professor Hoflinann").
Ireton Lodge, Cromwell Avenue, Highgate, N.
NowmlJer 23m, 1885.
In each of the following C8888 (save at the two lut sittings) Eglinton's
-()WD alates were used, and the spirits (1) were merely invited to write a single
Digitized by Google
328 Journal of Society for Pg!lchical Research. [J1I1Ie. 1886.
word, suggested by myaelf, on the Bpur of the moment, this being, I
was informed, the customary form of first manifestation. The alate was held
under the table by Eglinton in his right hand, in wha~ he stated to be his
usual manner, the thumb being sometimes above and sometimes below the
table; but the thumb and comer of the alate were alwaya visible, at
any rate to the person aitting next to Mr. Eglinton. No apecial. test
or condition was auggested (until the last two aittinp), my primary
object betng to get aobae positive result which should aerve as a starting
point for more minute investigation. I m"y further say that I com-
menced the investigation with a perfectly open mind, equally prepared to
do my best to detect imposture, or to certify to the genuineneaa of BUY
phenomena, if the circumstances warranted my doing so. It cannot
therefore be fairly aaaerted that any hOBtile or prejudiced attitude of
mind on my own part was the cauae of our repeated failures to obtain
any result. The evening sittings were in full gaslight.
June lat,l885. Satfrom 2.30to 3.40 p.m., in conjunction with Mr. C. C.
Mauey. Spiritsinvited to write the word .. indeacn'bable." No result.
June 13th, 1885. Sat from 10.0 to 11.10 a.m., with Mr. G. A. Smith.
Spirits invited to write name " Lewis" or " Smith." No result.
June 20th, 1885. Sat from 11.30a. m. to 12.45 p.m. with Mr. Smith. No
result.
•
June 26th, 1885. Sat from 9.15 to 10.30 p.m. with Mr. G. A. Smith
and Mias P-- (who, being a meBmeric sensitive, was considered likely
by Eglinton to increase the power). No reault.
June 29th, 1885. Sat from 9.10 to 10.15 with Mr. G. A. Smith and Mias
P--. On arrival found that they had already been Bitting for about fiva
minutea. Was Bhown aBlate (Eglinton'B), on which had just been written,
in answer to a question asking the cause of our repeated failures, "It is
owing to Mr. Hoft'mann'B influence," and a second alate (double, belonging
to Mr. Smith), on which had been written, in answer to the question, "Will
the adverse influence be overcome to-night 1" "We think so." On my
appearance however all manifeBtations ceased. We tried various positions
at the table, and finally I sat apart, but without reBult..
July 24th, 1885. Sat with Mr. Smith from 9.40 to 10.40 &om. without
l'88ult.
October 8th, 1885. Sat from 11.10a.m. to 12.20 p.m., in company with
my brother, Mr. Marcus H. Lewis, Solicitor, who some years ago took an
active intereBt in Spiritualiatic matters, and obtained some rather remarkable
results. Eglinton expressed a conviction that my brother had considerable
mediumistic power, and that, judging by hiB own sensationB, we were nearer
to BUcceBl than we had yet been. There Was however no result.
October 15th, 1885. Sat with Mr. Marcus H. LewiB, from 4.30 to nearly
6 p.m. I asked for the word" unpalatable" to be written, and after lIitting
for about 40 minutes, as it began to grow dusk, Eglinton waa seized with the
customary" Bhivering," a Bound of writing was heard, and on the alate
being drawn from under the table, and the gas lighted, the required word was
found written upon it, in a faint BOrawly handwriting, and one angle of the
little piece of pencil which had been put upon the slate was found to be
abraded. The position of the word (very close to the frame at the opposite
Digitized by Google
JUlie, 1886.] Journal qf Society for P8!1chical Re8eal'cl,. 329
end of the slate, and with the tops of the letters to the medium) was pre-
cisely that which it would most probably have taken if the slate had been
'86Cl'etly turned round in its own plane, and the word written by the medium
himself, but there was no evidence in support of such a supposition. My
"rother, who was seated next to Eglinton, and was able to command a view
~f the corner of the slate, did not observe any suspicious movement. On my
remarking to Eglinton the poaaible inference from such a position of the
writing, he said that this was the mOllt frequent position, but that it would
alao appoo.rin any other poaition, as might be called for. We sat for half-an-
"hour longer, but without result.
N.B.-My reason for selecting the word" unpalatable" was that the
'8&IIle word had appeared, but with a redundant II (unpalateable), in a long
mesaage procured at a sitting a few days before by Me88rs. Herschell and
&cha. I was curious to see whether the miBBpelling was repeated, and
found that it too.f 10, in the word as written for us.
October 27th, 1885. Sat with Mr. Marcus H. Lewis from 4.30 to 5.30
p.m. Asked for the figures 1885, but got no result.
N.B.-This and the following sitting were under tll8t conditions, viz., I
1I8ed my own slate, firmly screwed, by means of a couple of iron cIampa,
against the under-surface of the table.
November 17th, 1885. Sat with Mr. Marcus H. Lewis from 4 p.m. to
nearly 6. Word asked "Parliaments." No result.
ANOELO J. LEWIS.
The next account bas just arrived from our Corresponding Members
in St. Petersburg.
SEANCE FOR AUTOGRAPIDc1 WlUTING WITH MR. EGLINTON.
The .canee took place on the 14th-26th May, 1886, at the residence of
Professor BouUerof. The room was brilliantly illuminated by the full
light of an Argaad gas-burner. The party, numbering four in all, seated
themselves round an ordinary card-table, upon which lay, prepared by
Professor Boutlerof, one double folding slate sealed, and one common slate
oovered with a pasteboard, also sealed; in the first were placed two pieces
of Blate-pencil, and in the other pieces of alate and lead pencil. Three
-common school-slates and two papier-rn.acM slates without frame. and a
little box contaming small pieces of square alate-pencil, were also provided.
It should be noted that the table, alates, and pencils were not seen by Mr.
Eglinton ufttil he entered the room immediately before the commencement
of the etlance. On one side of the table sat Mr. Eglinton, to his right
Professor BouUerof, on whose right sat Professors Wagner and
Dobroslavin. Each of the sitters (excepting Mr. Eglinton) marked
all the slates in a manner to identify them. The hands formed
.a chain; Professor Boutlerof took in his left hand the left hand of
Mr. Eglinton, and in hiB right the left hand of Profe88or Wagner, who took
with his other the left hand of Profe9ll0r Dobroslavin, upon which the latter
.also placed his right hand. Then Mr. Eglinton took with his right hand
1 This term, meanIng self·writing, proposed by Mr. Akeakof. i. preferred to the
UIUal, but incorrect, one of .. psychography."
gitized by (.O~gI
•
•
330 Journal 01 Society fllr P8!Jchical lle8earch. [JIID8, 1896.
one of the common alatea, and placed upon it a amall piece of marked pencil,
the faceta of which were not worn, and pressed it cloaely againBt the under
aurface of the table, his thump resting on the top of the table in aight.
Profeuor Boutlerof put a question in English: "Can 1I"e obtain manifesta-
tion, to-night 1" The Bittel'll waited some time for an &DIIwer, and, none-
coming, another waa propoaed: "Shall we change our plaoea 1" Soon the.
sound aa of writing W&8 heard upon the alate, which waa followed by thre&
alight tape, Bignifying that the meuage W&8 finiBhed, and Mr. Eglinton
alowly and quite horizontally withdrew the Blate from under the table. On
the upper Burface of the alate, and along ita extreme end (the alate being held
by one of the narrow BideB, which had previoualy been marked) were written
four lines, the writing being upside down in relation to the position of the
medium: .0 No. We do not think we Bhall be able to write upon the Bealed
slates to-dn.y, but we will try." The" No" probably being an &DIIwer as
to the change of placeB, and the latter portion of the communication having
reference to a previouB question. The piece of pencil lying on the alate waa
identified, and found to be worn at one of the enda. The right hand of
the medium, or, to be more exact, his thumb, remained all the time
atationary until he withdrew the alate, when the chain W&8 broken. Mr.
Eglinton then aaked ProfesBOr Boutlerof for a Bmall book in any language.
Profeuor Dobroalavin remarked that he had brought with him a aea1ed enve-
lope in which a word unknown to him had been written by another perlOn,
and he produced the same from a little English book which he had until then
kept in his inner coat pocket. ThiB book was "ChemiBtry" by Bemaya. a
amall volume of 130 pagea in a linen binding. Mr. Eglinton, on aeeing the-
book, but without touching it, proposed to try an experiment which he had
niade elaewhere. Handing a alate to Profeuor Boutlerof, he requeated him
to write the number of a auppoaitioUB page, Profeuor Wagner the number
of line, and ProfeBBOr DobroBlavin the number of a word. Thia waa done,
and the alate \'Faa laid upon the table upside down without Mr. Eglinwn
having aeen the figurea. He next took another clean Blate, and putting it
under the table, aaked if it were likely the proPOBed experiment would be
aueeeuful. After some minuteB, writing and the three rape were heard, and .
on the alate waa found the word .. Yea." The medium then laid upon thia
alate the English book and the BeaIed envelope, and placed it under the table
as before, his right thumb remaining above the table. HiB left hand waa
clasped in that of Profeuor Boutlerof, aa in the previoUB experiment.
After a rather long interval of, 8&Y, five minuteB, no writing waa obtained.
Mr. Eglinton'withdrew the Blate twice, but nothing waa found upon it. He
then put it upon 1ihe table with the book and the envelope, both resting
in the same poBition, and took the papiu.macM alates provided by ProfeBBOr
Boutlerof, placing between them a fresh piece of alate-pencil; at the diagonal
cornel'll he tightly Bcrewed the Blates with amall brus thumb-acrewB, and held
them with his right hand, faatened in the manner deacribed, upon the left
ahoulder of ProfeBBOr Boutlerof. With hiB left hand he took the alate
upon which were the envelope and book, which was never once opened by
him, and placed it in poaition under the table, and continued to bold it
tightly preued againat it with the addition, on this occuion, of the help of
Profe&80r Boutlerof, who alao held the oppoaite end with hiti left hand_
Digitized by Google
.June, 1886.] Journal of Society.for Psychical Re8earch. 331
The other hands were again joined. After waiting for rather a long period,
Prof8880r Wagner proposed that Profe88or Dobroslavin should put his hand
upon Mr. Eglinton's left shoulder, which he accordingly did, continuing
however to hold his left hand in the right of Profel8or Wagner. Im-
mediately a loud BOund as of writing was heard between the screwed slates
held on the shoulder of Profe880r Boutlerof, and it finished with the U8ual
three raps. When the slates. were uUlcrewed by this gentleman, on the
upper surface of the lower slate was found written in a firm and legible
writing: "The word is compound chimney-gl&88." On referring to the
alate which had rested, as has been said, writing-ciownwards upon the table,
the book was opened at page 46, and on line 12 the fifth word was found to
be "glau," but as this was joined by a hyphen to the word" chimney,"
and could therefore be counted as the fourth in the line, it olicited the
explanation: "The word is compound." The crumb of pencil on examina-
tion was found to be worn at one comer, and the lower surface of the
upper slate, pl'888ed 88 it was upon the pencil, was without a mark of any
description. Not one of the four persons knew that the given word was in.
the ch08en place. After this, in answer to the question as to whether
writing could subsequently be produced between the sealed slates, the reply
was "Yes," autographically written upon a common slate in the ordinary
way; and instead of an answer being obtained to another question, the
words "Good-bye" were written upon the slate in bold characters.
The seance commenced at 9.20 and terminated at 10.
After witne88ing the experiments above described we have come to the
conclU8ion : (1) That the mediumistic autographic-writing is genuine, and
can.not be referred to the domain of prestidigitation, or explained by the
only help of generally-recognised mechanical, physical, or chemical laws.
(2) That it can manifest an intelligence of its own not depending to Q
certain degree upon that of those who assist at the I!eances; and (3) TWa
phenomenon, by its objectivity, especially afl'oMs facility for observation,
and deserv08 foIl attention and inv08tigation from competent persons and
institutioDB.
NICOLAS WAGNER, Profe88or of Zoology, and Honorary
Member of the University of St. Petersburg,
Corresponding Member of the Society for Psy-
chical Research.
A. BoUTLEROF, Fellow of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences, Profe880r of Chemistry to the Univer-
sity of St. Petersburg, Corresponding Member of
the Society for Psychical Research.
A. DOBROSLAVIN, Profe88or of Hygiene to the Imperial
Medical Academy of St. Petersburg, Correspond-
ing Member of the London Society for Psychical
Research.
The above collection of records is, I think, a. very fair sample of
the kind of evidence which induces many to believe that Mr. Eglinton's
slate-writing is not don.e by the agency of his own muscles, and our
readers must judge for themselves whether it is sufficient. Certain.1y
,..\f2
Digitized by Ltoogle
332 JO""nalof &ciety lor P'1lcnica1 Re~ea,.c". [JIIIUI, 11186.
some of the phenomena as d6BC'ribed seem to be inexplicable by the
known laws of nature j but this proves nothing by itself, since the
question still remains, Are they correctly described 1 The juggler's
art consists largely in making things appear as they are not. Can we
suppose that it has caused facts which did not occur to be imagined,
and facts which did occur to be overlooked, to the extent required to
make the cases before us explicable by ordinary human agency 1
For myself I have now no hesitation in attributing the performances
to clever conjuring. Personal experience has led me to form a very
high estimate of the advantage which a conjurer, especially when acting
as a medium, has over the· observers, and a very low estimate of the
power of exercising continuous observation possessed by myself and
others. By continuous observation I mean observation which during a.
particular inten·o.l of time has been not only accurate, but absolutely
uninterrupted. The length of the time during which the continuity of
obsenoation must be maintained varies, of course, with the circum·
stances. Sometimes it extends from the moment the observer enters
the house till the writing is seen. At other times it may be comparatively
short, but manifestly in no case can it be determined merely by refer-
ence to the time at which the writing seems to be done. Moreover, not
only observation, bbt memory often fails j-we are liable not only to
allow our attention to be distracted, but to forget immediately that ithas
been distracted, or that the event which distracted it ever occurred, the
very intensity of our interest in the evidence we are seeking helping in
this. It must further be remembered that a .. medium," if a conjurer,
is a conjurer who is not bound by the conditions of his profession to
succeed in any particular case; he can therefore baftle anyone whose
observation he happens to dread, by simply doing nothing until an
exceptionally favourable opportunity occurs. Mr. Eglinton, I may say,
has exercised this privilege of failure very freely in the cB.ses that b&\"e
come within my private knowledge.
Now it will be remarked that the validity of all the evidence here
presented (with one doubtful exception which I will discuss presently),
depends on continuous observation; and the same is true, so far as I
have been able to learn, of all the evidence published elsewhere.1 And
this is not because investigators have not realised the superior value
of evidence of a different kind, such as we should have if writing
were obtained on slates carefully sealed together so that the interior
should be inaccessible and slates and seals without doubt identified, or
still better in a hermetically-sealed glass tube of known form and
weight. In these cases the evidence would depend not on continuous
1 Mr. Tommy's locked box fonna no exception, for, as I understand the lICC01Dlt
of the IM!ance in '7'Icizt Two World., the Blate was placed in the box, the box locked
and afterwards opened, during the 16ance.
Digitized by Google
Jourl/olol Society for Psychical Research. 333
observation, but on accuracy of observation before and after the
ance. Attempts to obtain evidence of this kind have been constantly
made. To take only the cases before us-Messrs. Hodgson and Hogg
tried sealed slates; so did Mr. Gurney and Mrs. Brietzcke ; Mr. Murray
tried to get writing in alates screwed and sealed; Mias Symons tri~
to get coins taken out of a sealed box; Mr. Bennett tried to get the
contents of sealed envelopes read; Mr. Bentall tried to obtain writing on
a slate covered with glass, and on one covered with wire gauze, and also
tried a sealed envelope; the St. Petersburg profe880rs tried to get
writing in slates sealed together, and on one covered with paste-
board, and to get the contents of a sealed envelope read; and finally Mr.
Wedgwood has tried repeatedly to get writing in a sealed alate. All
these attempts have failed, with the single apparent exception of one
of Mr. Wedgwood's, and in this case there seems to me to be a serious
flaw in the evidence. Mr. Eglinton saw the slates at the first seance,
~hen nothing occurred; and even if it could be proved that they had
not been tampered with in the interval between the two ances, I
cannot perceive that we have any means of knowing that a pair was
not prepared in imitation and substituted at the second seance. It is
surely significant that there should be but a single instance of writing
in secnrely closed slate&, and that a dubious one.
There are two or three points which one can experiment on
for oneself, to which I should like to draw attention. They relate
to the hearing and feeling of the process of writing. It is worth
noticing that writing may be done inaudibly, and that if audible,
.the sound is not easy to localise with great precision, especi-
ally when there is anything to suggest that it comes from a spot
which is not the true one. Without some skill on the part of the
operators, however, it is not quite easy to devise experiments in which
a wrong locality shall be intentionally suggested. One of the worst
positions for loca1ising the sound is with the ear on the slate and the
alate resting on the table. A sound made elsewhere in connection with
the table is then very apt to sound as if it were on the ala~, until it is
realised how loud the sound of writing on the slate itself appears when
the earrests on it. It is not easy to distinguish with certainty between
the sounds of writing on a alate, that of rubbing two slate-pencils
together, and even that of scratching on the frame of the slate
or on the table, unless these sounds are made immediately after one
another. I do not think that writing on a slate produces any vibra-
tion perceptible to the touch of ordinary people. The only way of
trying this that has occurred to me is to rest a alate partly on each of
two tables of equal height, to place the hand on it, and get someone to
write on the under side between the two tables. I have not 8ucceeded
• DiQitizedbyGoogle
334 Journal ~f Society for P8!lclJicai Be8earcll. [June, 1886.
in feeling any vibration under these circumstances, nor have others
who have tried with me. I think, therefore, that if any vibration
seeming to follow the writing has really been felt, it must have been
produced by something other than the writing.
In conclusion I will only say that, taking into consideration the
difficulties of observation, the circumstances calculated to add to that
difficulty under which Mr. Eglinton's writing is produced-auch as the
table conveniently acting as a $lreen, and the talking and other dis-
tractions-I can hardly imagine being myself convinced that it was
genuine except by evidence of a different sort, to wit, the testimony of
thoroughly competent and trustworthy witnesses that in several cases
it had been produced under circumstances which dispensed with the
necessity of continuous observation.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICB:.
"PHANTASM~ OF THE LIVING."
The price at which this book (2 vols. octavo) will be issued is one
guinea. One copy will be supplied to every present Member of the
Society who'has paid his subscription for the current year, for 5& 3d. and
the cost of carriage or polItagc; and to every present Associat.e who hM
paid his subscription for the current year, for lOs. 6d. and the cost of
carriage or postage. Members and Associates who desire copies of the
work are requested to send their names to the Assistant-Secretary,
at 14, Dean's Yard, S.W.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Oontinued.)
L.-2369.
Blyville P.O., Knox County, Nebraaka, U.S.A.
.December 5th, 1885.
DEAR MR. GURNBY,-I have just, or rather a month ago, had a verr
unpleaaant accident which baa fortunately turned out all right and baa given
me the pleasure of forwarding to you a very complete and unmistakable C8II8
of "second-Bight.." I think it better to encloae the two letten you will
find herein, aa I received them to-day. They are in anawer to two of mine
dated about the 2nd or 3rd, about a week after the accident. • • • The
accident occurred at 7 o'clock in the morning of the 26th of October. I
fainted from 1088 of blood, and was lying for a few momenta on the ground.
1 was walking toward. a pair of French windowI, with my handa in my
pockets. when I stumbled over a chair and fell right through the lowest pane
of glaaa face foremost, cutting my nose off on one lide, and nearly taking an
eye out.. So you will lee my lister'I dream was pretty acclU'&te. I alto
Digitized by Google
.TaDe, 1886.] Journa1l!f &cit'" lor P8ychical Research. 335
encloae a statement made by two residents here of this end of the case,
which lrill, I hope, make it complete. I am glad to be able to send you 0.
peI'IIOnal experience, which can be readily verified. I may say our time is
Iix and a-half hours ahead of England.-Youra very truly,
JOHN T. M. PIBRCB.
:Mr. Pierce enclosed tbe following statement :-
On Monday, October 26th, about 7 o'clock a.m., Mr. J. T. M. Pierce
fell through a French ~dow, cutting his face badly, and lay on the floor
inlenaible for several minutes.
J. WATSON.
C. J. HUNT.
Mr. Pierce enclosed a letter which he had received from his sister, dated
November 16th, 1885. After condolences about his accident abe writes :-
Do yon know itis the oddest thing, but on the 26th of October I dreamt
that I saw you lying on the ground quite unconscious. your face bleeding and
looking 80 dreadful I woke up calling to you. I told Kate directly I came
down, and we both marked the date. I told mother, too, I had had a bad
dream about you, but I did not deacribe it for fear of frightening her. Waa
it not strange 1 It was such a vivid dream, it struckme very much, but I did
not mention it in my laat letter to you, I thought you would laugh about it.
But it ill strange-on the very day too. •
Mr. Pierce &lao enclosed a letter from his mother, Mrs. Pierce, ofFrettons,
Danbury, Chelmsford, dated November 17th, 1885, in whioh the following
Mntence occurs :-
Was not Mary's dream singular 1 She came down that morning you were
hurt, and told Kate every particular of it, agreeing with the time you were
hurt.
[The coincidence was not 80 precise aa Mrs. Pierce imagines, aa the dream
was on the night JvUowing the accident. The time of the accident, at
Chelmsford, would be about 1 p.m.]
In compliance with our request for an account of the dream, Mias Pierce
88Ddathefollowing:-
Frettons, Danbury, Chelmsford.
December 31at, 1885.
On the night of the 26th of October (i.e., 26-27), I dreamt I saw my
brother lying on the ground, his face bleeding and dark; he waa quite
unconacioua. I called to him, but he did not answer, and was stooping
towards him, calling him by name, when I awoke. It waa 80 vivid a dream
that it produced a great impression upon me, and I felt as though lOme
accident had befallen him. I cannot tell at all what time in the night it waa.
10 the morning I told my sister and put down the date, also mentioning it
to one or tW:I others ; but to my sister I ducribed it in the same worda that
I have now used. I am not at all accustomed to having bad dreams about
friends, indeed, I never remember having had one before.
M. PIBROB.
Digitized by Google
[R]
[R]
[R]
[R]
[R]
336 JourlJlll qf &Cief!llor PS!lchical RR~arc'.. [J1ID8, 1886.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The foUotoing additiooa hat'e been made during the la&t ttOO montJu.
[R] iudicates that the book is for reference only.
GREGORY (Wm.. M.D.. F.R.S.E.) Animal Magnetism; or.
Mesmerism and ita Phenomena. 3rd Edit. •••••••.•..••••..•London. 18&§
HELLENBACH (Baron) Birth and Death as a Change of Fonn of
Perception; or, The Dual Nature of Man. From the
Gennan, by .. V." ••.•••••••.•..••••...•••••••••••••.•..••••••••.•••.Lond.m, 1886§
PmoNOTON (George) Tho Unknown Tongues •.•.••..•••.•••.•••••Lolldon. 1837:
BARTH (Henri) Du Sommeil non Naturel, 8es diveraes formee Pa.N. 1886
BBRJON(Dr. A.) La Graode Hyettlrie chez I'Homme•.•••••••••••••Paru. 188r'
BIBLIOGlUPBlB des Ouvragea reJatif8 aox PlIlerinagea, aox
Miracles. au Spiritisme, et Ilola Pre8tidigita~ion •••••••••.•••••Turin, 1816
BINET (Alfred) La Psychologie du Raiaonnement ••••••••.•.•••••••Pan., 1886
Bot1RRU ET BUROT : Action adistance des substances toxiquea
et mlldicamenteuaea ; suivie d'une communication par M.
CharltIB Richet •••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••..•••••.•••••••.•••••Pam. 1886*
OHAMB.&JU) (Dr. Ernest) Du Somnambuliame en gemSral ••••••.• Pan., 1881
MAGlnN (Dr. Paul) Etude clinique et explSrimentale sur l' hypnotiame
Pam. IBM
RAPPORT de I'un dee Oommiaaairea (M. de J UBBieu) charge par Ie
Roi de l'emmen du Magnetiame Animal........................ Pan., 17&t
EcKHARTSHAU8BN (Hofrath von) VerachiedentIB zum Unterricht und
zur Unterhaltung fiir Liebhaber des Magnetismua, &C... Munich. 1791
EHRMANN (Dr.) Onirua. ala Schutzpatron der Traiimer beheilkundet,
FtuMfori, 1805
GE8CHICHTB ein6B Geisteraehera: Aua den Papieren dee Mannes m. d.
eiBemen Larve. 2 role (title wanting)...........................Leiprig. 1797
GULIN (Eberhard) Ueber thieriachen Magnetismua......... PUbingen, 1781
REICHENBACH (Dr. Freiherr von) Aphorismen iiber Senaitivitii.t und
Od.........................................................................Vienna, 1866
RoHLING (Profeuor Dr. August) Louiao Lateau, Die Stigmatisirte von
Bois d'Haine ...............................................:......Paderborn, 1814
ScHWARZICHILD (Heinrich, M.D.) Magnetismua, Somnambuliamua,
Clairvoyance (2nd rol.) .......................................... Ca.el. 1854
STOCKHAUSEN (J. F .• Rev.) Mira Pneaagia llortia; daa ist: Wunder-
liche Todes Vorboten ..........................................Ftutakfort, 1698
WILLMANN (Carl) Modeme Wunder .................................Leipzig. 1886
ZEITUNO (Neue), Griindlicherund eigentlicher Bericht, einerwarhaftU-
gen wunderbaren Historien von einem J ungling der geatorben und
wieder lebendig worden, und was er gesehen und geredt hat
Imide,., 1567
[R] SoNNTAG (Joh. Mich) De Spectris et ominibua morientium Altdorf. 1716
* Prelented by the authors: i Presented by Dr. Puel.
::: Presented by Mr. J. W. Hayn. § Presented by Mr. J. Herbert Stack.
Digitized by Google
