{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynn_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynn R Probable NDE 3537","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynn R Probable NDE 3537  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynn R Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1577 Lynn R Probable NDE 3537  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had no recollection of 'time' as in the conscious state so I am unclear when this event took place. I am uncertain if it was while I had no pulse or remained in the intensive care unit. I could not see my physical body and felt like I was more of a spiritual being. I could see a luminescent white/blue light that was a distance away from me. I did not travel towards the light, but it was there. The only thing I could do was rely on the feelings I was having. There were no spoken words and there was just an unspoken knowledge of what was occurring. I felt overwhelmingly calm, at peace and very much reassured that I was okay and going to be okay. I remember wondering why I was not travelling towards the light. I just knew that it was not yet my time and I was experiencing what I was for comfort? Reassurance? Or maybe just the knowledge of faith and a taste of what is expected at death? I still don't know. I do not talk about this experience to many, nor have I told many people. I still have many questions myself.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    asthma attack included seizure  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was sleeping and woke up having an asthma attack. I had taken a seizure during my attack. I sat up in bed, stood up then fell back on the bed. When emergency services came, I had no pulse. Revived by ambulance attendants. Remained in the intensive care unit for ten days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My highest level of consciousness and alertness was while I could see the luminescent blue/white light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     'Time', as in the conscious state, did not exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt another presence but did not see or hear it.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a luminescent blue/white light at a distance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peace, comfort, reassured.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I cannot say absolutely that my experience is the reason my beliefs have changed. It may have been the beginning of a learning process.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   agnostic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I cannot say absolutely that my experience is the reason my beliefs have changed. It may have been the beginning of a learning process.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just knew that it was not my time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Describing what was felt during the experience to accurately describe event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Acknowledgement that there is life after physical death. There seems to be a higher power, and the place we will go to will be worth the wait.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time I shared my experience was after I returned home from the hospital, to my then partner. Pretty sure he felt I was out of touch with reality. I have shared it with very few other people and some of them are very interested in my experience but not really influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My faith became stronger. I became very spiritual. I attended Bible Study on a regular basis.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that there is a higher power, but not necessarily the 'God' humankind has reflected. I have become agnostic. I know there is something greater, but societal reflections of religion and the Bible I have become to question.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynn_r_probable_nde.html