{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynn_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynn R Possible NDE 2792","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynn R Possible NDE 2792  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynn R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						948  Lynn R Possible NDE  2792  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   





  				  The Wonder of You: What the Near Death Experience Tells You About Yourself    Click Here for more information		  					


 
  					  It was toward the end of the second year of college in 1972. I was a single parent who was going through a messy divorce and putting myself through school to be a counselor. I had three children, ages three, four and five, was carrying a full course load, running a boarding house and had a job as a group home parent on the weekend. By the time March came, I had run myself into the ground and became sick. I had pneumonia, mononucleosis, and pleurisy all at the same time.

I was in bed with my illness while one of the borders looked after the children for me. I don't know if my experience happened during the day or night. I just remember being so very sick that I couldn't think of anything and didn't care what happened to me. I just lay there almost like a zombie.

All of a sudden, I was out of my body and in a tunnel. The tunnel was smoky grey and there was a man I had never seen before standing beside me. He was holding my hand and dressed in a priest's outfit. I was fully aware that I was dead and that the man was there to take me to wherever I was to go. But, I couldn't understand why a Catholic priest had come for me as I knew no priests, and was not Catholic.

Anyway, we started to move up the tunnel and we were up far enough to see a dot of light at the end of the tunnel. Just then, a voice came down to us and the words were directed to the man beside me. The voice said, 'Take her back, it is not her time.'

The 'priest' responded by saying, 'But, she died.'

Then the voice came back down and said, 'Take her back, she has much left to do.' The next thing I knew, I was back in my body on the bed. Throughout the whole experience, I didn't feel any fear or confusion. I was quite content to follow this man even though I had no idea who he was.

Sadly, it isn't much of an NDE, but that's all that happened. One year later, I had an STE experience. I sometimes wonder if I had that experience to make up for the fact that I didn't get to go to the light and learn from it.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 1972  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other 'I was at home, very sick, think I died but no proof.'  I was very sick with pneumonia, mononucleosis and pleurisy.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to be more observant and aware of every little thing. Like for example, in the tunnel it seemed that the sides were filled with deep grey roiling smoke. As if I was caught in a hollowed out cloud at night.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the moment I left my body, until many days after I returned to my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt like we were there a long time, but have no idea how long it took.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I never thought of this before now, but yes my vision was much sharper as if I could see every molecule that made up the smoke in the tunnel if I had wanted to.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I say yes because of the voice that came down from above. A clear, bass man's voice had great authority to it. The fact that I could hear it so clearly, as if the person who owned the voice was right beside us, and yet it was so very far away.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was like a smoky, dark grey cloud that swirled around us.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a 'priest' that was my guide up the tunnel.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Well, technically I did. But, it was just a pinpoint of light very far away.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     Sorry no.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Again, I haven't thought of this point and feel a little silly about that. I felt that all was as it should be. That was the main feeling. As I didn't see the light at that time, I didn't feel the feelings that go with that. However, since the experience I feel blessed to know that there was a continuation after death.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Do not belong to a church, but have strong spiritual belief within me.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     This experience was so short that it didn't have a huge impact on me. However, my STE experience had a giant impact and changed my life.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I have studied many different religions.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     This experience was so short that it didn't have a huge impact on me. However, my STE experience had a giant impact and changed my life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Well, I have always tried to be a good person, so that didn't change. But the knowledge that we continue on really helped me to be more aware of others.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   My STE was hard to express, but not this experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was raised by an atheist and did not know what to expect when I died. This experience taught me that I was going to continue on and that there was no need to worry.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day when I was suddenly all better.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   There was no information at that time that I knew of.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't have any proof that it happened. I was at home sick and there was no one around. But, I believed it was real, because it felt so real at the time.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I must admit that over the last thirty years the experience has faded in my mind. I know it happened, but wonder if it was a hallucination from being so sick. Then again, I did get well very quickly after that.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Once I read about NDE's I felt a little cheated for a while because I didn't get to go to the light. Now, I am more patient.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No the questionnaire is quite complete. Thank you.  Be the love that you are     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynn_r_possible_nde.html