{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lysa_nde.html","mytitle":"Lysa NDE 6110","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lysa NDE 6110  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lysa NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2884 Lysa NDE 6110  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sleeping in the ward I heard lady patients calling for nurses because I was making funny breathing and choking noises.  I remember being pushed along the corridors and through the ward doors to the theatre.  Still in my body I watched the surgeons take blood soaked swabs from my mouth and drop them into a plastic bucket I saw the oxygen tanks around the room.  Then I floated up to the ceiling and I could see through the wall to another room and I recognised young women from my ward sleeping in their beds.  Then I was in a viewing gallery with a very tall woman who held my hand.  She was strong, serious and in charge of me.  We watched my dad come into the theatre to see me as the doctors thought I was going to die. I didn't feel sorry for my dad or particularly want to go back. The woman holding my hand told me I had to get into my body.  I said I was scared that I didn't know how to do it.  She said go down now.  I said what shall I tell them about it.  Then I was in my body again and a nurse was stroking my face.  I said what I used to hear in the movies "Where am I" although I knew exactly what had happened. I stayed in hospital for 3 weeks and I told mum and she told the nurses but nothing more was said.  When I got home I became talented at drawing and poetry and I became a serious little girl who was knowing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   After a tonsillectomy I suffered a blod clot and was rushed back to surgery for a complete blood transfusion.  My heart stopped and I was resuscitated.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The nurses confirmed the layout of the operating theatre were what I described  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more mature for my years.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Holding the ladies hand in the gallery.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was really calm and unafraid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could only hear the spirit lady

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       anticipation and obedience

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I attended a church of england primary school, I knew the lords prayer and sang hymns

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I don't attend church

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don't think I'd contemplated death or understood God before the experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A female presence who took charge of me and held my hand firmly

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The spirit woman was in charge of my destiny and I had to obey her

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was only six years old but I became aware of loving the wonder of nature, rainbows and sunsets and stars at night.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I knew that I had to do more work on earth and it felt daunting.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     As above, I knew I had more work to do on earth and my reluctance to do it was felt when I was told to go back in my body.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I became sensitive to others I sometimes felt I was a stranger to my mum and dad.  My imagination and creativity became increased and I felt I could will some things to happen.  In adult hood I have experimented with reiki healing, angel cards, colour therapy and other therapies for well being.  I studied to become a life coach.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I think about the experience most days.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am highly sensitive to the needs of others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        yes, how detached I felt towards my parents.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mum and hospital immediately but it was always ignored

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was totally real as far as I was concerned

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It means so much to me in this life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had an episode of a sleeping paralysis where two unearthly beings were in my room when I was 16.  I had to struggle to wake my body up although my mind and eyes were alert.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lysa_nde.html